Hyundai i10 Expert Review :-
Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Introduction.The legacy of the Hyundai i10 continues to this date through its third-generation model; the Grand i10 Nios. And, in case you were wondering, yes, the second-generation Grand i10 will continue to sell alongside, albeit at a lower price point. In short, this iteration runs a tweaked platform with new tech, major revisions to the design, and an updated feature list.The Grand i10 Nios primarily battles it out with cars such as the Grand i10, Ford Figo, and the hugely popular Maruti Suzuki Swift. But, for this road test, we’ve driven the manual versions of the 1.2 petrol and 1.2 diesel extensively to give you a clear and detailed idea of what makes the Grand i10 Nios tick. Read on.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Design and style .We aren't fans of the Nios' design. You simply tend to see a fusion of the Santro and the Grand i10 and it’s not something that goes down well as the Nios sits a notch higher. But yes, if you ask us what stands out in terms of the Nios’ design; it has to be the humungous grille on that cutesy nose.Furthermore, those shrewd-looking headlamps and sporty creases on the bonnet and bumper may just be all the sportiness you’ll ever get to see in this hatch. Also, when viewed in profile, it becomes obvious that the smartly raked roof is how the generous headroom was liberated.At the rear, a number of latitudinal lines have been stacked in manner to make this hatch look wider than it really is. Overall, we’d say the Nios is borderline pleasing to the eye.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Interior.The Nios’ cabin is a pretty nice one to be in. A fresh dash design, complete with dual tones and a flowing theme onto the centre console definitely infuses some excitement to the equation. And, since it’s well laid out too, ergonomics are favourable. But where this hatch truly stands out is in the quality, and fit and finish department, which is very good for this segment.Also, what makes manoeuvring this hatch so easy is not just the compact dimensions, but the visibility from the large glass area, and off the adequately sized mirrors. Now, in terms of storage, there are two cup holders and a long-ish stowage space for your knick knacks. Plus, if you’re not using the wireless charger ahead of the gear shifter, it can swallow some of your belongings. For everything else, the deep door pads or reasonably sized glove-box are the way to go.When you slide onto the front seats, you’ll appreciate that they are of the wide and supportive kind. Not to forget that there’s adequate thigh support and surprisingly good lateral support. With ample headroom, knee-room and shoulder room on offer, it’s hard to miss the fact that it feels spacious.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Music player, safety equipment and features.Our car had the Arkamys premium eight-inch touchscreen system, complete with smartphone connectivity like Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. Not only does it sound good, the touch and UI interface response is reasonably swift. Plus, the display panel and graphics look pleasing to the eye.Let’s start with the safety features first. The Nios gets dual airbags, ABS with EBD, speed alert system, emergency stop signal, rear parking sensors and immobiliser as standard. The version you see here is the top-spec Asta that’s filled to the brim.You get projector headlamps with LED daytime running lights and 15-inch diamond-cut alloy wheels to name a few. Then, there’s the start/stop button, wireless charging tray, automatic AC, electric folding door mirrors and driver's seat height adjust, and some.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Engine and Performance.At the time of writing this review, the Grand i10 Nios, came with the choice of a 1.2 four-cylinder kappa petrol (BS6), or a 1.2 three-cylinder U2 CRDi diesel (BS4) motor that powers the front wheels. You can also opt for a five-speed manual or an AMT gearbox. We’ve covered the manual versions of both engines in this road test, but you can read more on the petrol automatic here.Let’s start with the Kappa, and like most petrols, this one too is refined and the power delivery, linear. There’s hardly any buzz, so the inherent qualities of a petrol (the reason why you’d opt for one) pampers you every time you’re at the wheel. The only time the NVH is really felt is when you hover around the motor’s limit.What’s nice about the power delivery is that there’s a nice usable flow of torque from the word go. Our drivability tests, the 20-80kmph and 40-100kmph, took 13.11 and all of 20.38 seconds respectively. This makes driving in the city an absolute ease. What also simplifies the driving experience is the well-judged gear ratios that allow you to drive as low as 15kmph in third, and 25kmph in fourth gear.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Ride and Handling.Ride quality wise, we noticed that the ride is firm at slower speeds. This is also accompanied by some suspension and tyre noise despite the pretty good insulation job. Now, although the ride quality improves by getting mildly flatter as you go faster; every now and then, it surprises you with a sharper jolt. To sum it up, there’s a constant and unpredictable up-and-motion in the Grand i10 Nios, unless you’re driving on a well-paved road.When it comes to the steering, like most Hyundai’s, this one also feels slightly vague around the centre. But, since it is quite light and responsive (three turns lock-to-lock), manoeuvring through snug city confines, or parking in a tight spot is relatively easy. Also, body control on tight bends is surprisingly good. Sure, there’s considerable roll when you push it, but the feedback from the steering and the good grip levels from the 175-section tyres, give you just the right amount of confidence.Braking too, is more than adequate and feel-some, with the car being able to drop the anchors from 80kmph in 2.31 seconds.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Price and Fuel Economy.The Grand i10 Nios retails between INR 595000 and INR 954000 (on-road Mumbai). When it comes to fuel economy, the Grand i10 Nios petrol with a manual gearbox returned a fuel efficiency of 13.07kmpl and 17.06kmpl in the city and highway. The frugal diesel version delivered an expectedly higher mileage of 16.13kmpl and 22.74kmpl.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Verdict.The Hyundai Grand i10 Nios is a worthy successor to the i10 heritage. With the Nios, the interiors have seen a marked revision, quality along with fit and finish is extremely good for the segment, and both engines not only perform well- they are refined and reasonably efficient too. All this combined with the favourable ergonomics, compact dimensions and light controls make the Nios a breeze to commute.But on the flipside, the average ride quality makes for a serious downer. The Nios also looks thoroughly uninspiring, and could have done with a lot more character. But these aside, the Nios actually makes for a competitive hatchback.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios ProsCompact footprint,Good drivabilityHyundai Grand I10 Cons.Bobbing at high speeds,No top-end trimHyundai Grand I10 Nios Engines and Performance.This Nios Turbo comes powered by a 1.0-litre, three-cylinder, direct injection petrol engine, unlike the 81bhp 1.2-litre, four-cylinder, petrol mill on the standard Nios. It is like the BS6 one we've seen on the Venue, but tuned to produce 99bhp and 172Nm of torque like in the Aura. It also comes mated to a five-speed manual gearbox, but doesn't get the Smart Auto AMT (automatic). Twist the key into the starter and you'll instantly appreciate this silent engine. The refinement of this motor is quite laudable and it can barely be heard at low revs.If you've driven the regular Nios, you'll feel the apparent difference here from the word go. The standard version lacked that pep which is exactly what we get here. This one continues to rev freely till its 6,500rpm redline and power comes in linearly to keep building on to the speed. Then, it does try to make a sporty engine note post 2,500rpm and gets vocal only post the 4,000rpm mark. However, this will rarely be the case as it does the job effectively between 2,000-3,500rpm. The turbo spools up and post 1,500rpm you start to feel a good tug to push the car ahead even with moderate throttle inputs. The additional torque (58Nm over the standard car) also helps with a packed cabin and ferrying around occupants in ease. The car never feels bogged down, even with all the passengers on-board.The clutch is light and the gearshifts are smooth as a knife sliding into a block of butter. Short and precise throws make things hassle-free, and in fact, help shifting on to a lower gear easily while quickly overtaking a vehicle. That said, it doesn't really require frequent change in gears, as with the tall gearing it can almost reach triple-digit speeds in the second gear itself. Besides, it can easily manage to stay at 100kmph in fifth gear at around 2,100rpm. And, you don't really feel the need of the sixth gear as well. There you see, it's easy to drive sanely and even responsive when putting the pedal to the metal.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Ride and Handling.There is no apparent difference between the ride quality of this Turbo and the regular Nios. This is a good thing as it also doesn't crash into potholes and clears the biggest of bumps. Its suspension continues to absorb road imperfections well at all speeds, only with a slight thud over sharp pothole edges and road joints. Yes there's some road noise at high speeds, otherwise, it does cope up well with our road conditions and maintains composure with minimum body roll. That said, it still does bob a bit over 100kmph, even though Hyundai has tried to curb the bouncy feel over undulations.Then, its steering is quite light keeping your efforts minimum while parking. It's still a little vague at the centre and doesn’t please much with feedback. Still, it weighs up adequately with the increase in speeds and easily turns the car in the direction it is pointed at. However, the 175/60 R15 section tyres aren't the grippiest of all and induce wheel spin with every aggressive launch. There's even a tendency to understeer if pushed hard around corners. Nonetheless, the brakes are confidence-inspiring with a good bite and feel fairly progressive at the pedal.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Interior Space and Quality.The Nios sticks to its name's meaning to offer more value, more features, more space, and more excitement. This Turbo version is no different and continues to do so with the interesting design and ergonomic layout. The all-black interior isn't as bright as the grey insides of the standard Nios, but looks sporty with the red accents on dashboard, and the red piping and stitching on the seats. The single unit binnacle housing both the 5.3-inch instrument cluster and the eight-inch touchscreen infotainment system is good to look at.Even the hexagonal patterns and textures around are a welcome change from the conventional car designs. Material quality, fit and finish is admirable for it to look and feel the most upmarket cabin in its class. It's also a spacious one offering adequate space for occupants in both rows with good all-round visibility. You can set a perfect driving position thanks to various adjustments, including seat-height setting. Even the seats are comfortable with adequate support and sufficient recline for the backrest. What's more, the cabin also boasts of many nifty storage and stowage places to cater to varying needs of passengers.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Features and Safety.By now you must have known, the Nios is bigger than the Grandi10 and is packed with more equipment too. Do note that the top-spec Asta variant comes with all the bells and whistles. However, this Nios Turbo is only available in the Sportz variant and as a result you lose out on some minor details. These include a button start, leather wrapped steering wheel, headlight height adjuster, rear wiper, chrome door handles, and just one 12V power outlet instead of the two in the other top-end versions.Still it remains to be a highly-equipped vehicle with more than what its competitors have to offer. It boasts of an eight-inch touchscreen infotainment system paired to an ARKAMYS sound system and a part-digital instrument cluster with a multi-information display. Then, there's wireless charging, smartphone connectivity with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, a cooled glove-box, fast-charging USB slots, and so on.Furthermore, automatic climate control, rear AC vents, engine start/stop button, keyless entry, three-spoke multifunction steering wheel, premium seat upholstery, driver side height adjustment, and electrically adjustable and folding outside mirrors are all to add to the comfort and convenience. Also, as far as safety goes, the Nios boasts of ABS with EBD, dual airbags, rear parking sensors, driver and passenger seatbelt reminder and pre-tensioners, and even a speed alert system as standard. You see, it's quite a long list!Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Verdict.From the looks of it Hyundai has covered all bases with the Nios Turbo and indeed owners will not have any big complaints then. The Hyundai Nios, in general, was already a well-rounded package with its quirky styling, smooth refined engines, and a feature-packed cabin with good fit and finish. And despite this Sportz Turbo trim missing some features from the Asta, its reasonably feature-packed and a notch above what its rivals have. Sure, it might not be the most comfortable for long-distance touring, especially for rear occupants, but it still is a good city-friendly car. And with this power-packed engine, you get a punchy driving experience at a starting ex-showroom price of INR 768000 only. Nothing else in this segment offers quite such a promising deal. Welcome this cutesy ‘Fiery Red’ Hyundai grand i10 Nios turbo-petrol in our CarWale long-term fleet. As you’d have reckoned, our long-termers see a whole lot of action.Especially if it is our photo-bugs, Kapil and Kaustubh, behind the wheel. Be it dawns or dusks, the bright days or the rainier ones, or even for that matter that they tread the unknown almost always. Only so that we can share all that there is to know. Now, before I sound like an advert for NASA’s next discoverer shuttle, let me take you through the down-to-earth basics.Let’s face it. There’s a strong demand in our country for compact SUVs. But with the top four best-sellers being hatches (by sales volume), it’s not only clear that hatches are here to stay, they may be the preferred choice in the future due to diminishing road space. Likewise, since we all can’t get over the longstanding ‘petrol or diesel’ dilemma, thanks to the current state of affairs (read fuel price), we thought we’d have a go at the turbo-petrol this time around.So, we’ve commenced our stint with this top-end Grand i10 Nios Sportz with a 1.0-litre Turbo GDi badge and a dual-tone (black roof); phew, that’s a long one! And, in case you were wondering, it’s got 99bhp/172Nm nestled under the hood which is sent to the front wheels via a five-speed manual gearbox. Hmm, straight off the bat, I can say that I’m missing a few cabin features- spoilt brat that I am. Nevertheless, before the silly me spills the beans, I’ll have some interesting stories to share in the three months that it’ll be parked in our highly-decorated CarWale parking spot.Be it the niggles in its space department, the features, its power output, efficiency, ride quality or even the opposite. We’ll have the answers. To be exact, our next report towards the fag-end of April will reveal this hatch’s city driving manners, on all accounts. So stay tuned to the CarWale reviews section for the next report.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Pros.Sporty design, interior fit and finish, loaded with features and light controls.Hyundai I10 Nios Cons.Inconsistent ride quality, no top-end automatic on offer.The Hyundai i10 has been around for over 12 years, and over the course of time, it has received various updates; the 2nd gen Grand i10 being a significant one. This right here, however, is the third-generation model, and it gets a new nameplate - Hyundai Grand i10 Nios. It gets an updated platform and the design has been overhauled significantly, both, inside and out. However, it does not replace the Grand i10; in fact, both the cars co-exist under Hyundai’s two-pronged strategy to take on the rivals. That said, does the Grand i10 Nios have what it takes to dethrone the segment leader, the Maruti Suzuki Swift? We find out.The design of the Grand i10 Nios is sporty and striking, something that'll immediately appeal to the millennials. It carries the family look upfront, with the large cascading grille, and we are glad that Hyundai has gone for a piano black/silver finish for it. Boomerang-shaped LED DRLs have been integrated into the far corners of this grille, which is a unique design element. What's more, the clamshell bonnet and the sleek projector headlamps add an air of sportiness to the fascia. And completing the whole look at the front are the first-in-segment projector fog lamps.On the side, 15-inch dual-tone diamond-cut alloys and roof rails serve to highlight the profile. However, lower variants get 14-inch monotone black alloys. Then there's the 'G-i10' badge on the C-pillar, which resonates the Grand i10 brand name. The squat stance and the pronounced wheel arches lend an athletic look to the Nios. Things at the back, though, are rather conventional with wraparound halogen taillights. The Nios branding on the tailgate highlights the cars identity, while the faux scuff plates add some ruggedness to the bumper. The Grand i10 Nios is available in eight exterior colours, including two dual-tone paint schemes.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Interior. Hyundai cars are known for their well-appointed interiors, and the Grand i10 Nios is no different. Step inside, and it’s instantly apparent that the cabin is inspired by the Venue and Kona. And it’s not a bad thing at all. The dual-tone grey interiors and the wraparound honeycomb pattern come together quite well to form a cohesive design. Taking centre-stage is an eight-inch touchscreen display, complete with support for Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, Bluetooth connectivity and voice recognition. Higher variants also get an ARKAMYS sound system and Hyundai has also thrown-in wireless charging as a part of the package. Additionally, the dual-tone variants come with dual-tone black interiors with blue/red accents and stitching. And although there are plenty of hard plastics everywhere, the fit and finish is excellent.While we are at it, let's talk about the seating and space on offer. The front seats are comfortable with good side bolstering, and manual adjustment for height (driver-side). However, it gets fixed headrests, and I felt the under-thigh support could have been better at the front. The view out, though, is excellent thanks to the large glasshouse area. The chunky steering is good to hold and the toggles, switches and various buttons have a solid tactile feel to them. Moving on to the rear seats, what I particularly liked was the impressive under-thigh support. Again, the knee room, headroom and legroom is good, and the backrest angle is perfect. However, fitting three average-sized adults at the back would be a bit of a squeeze. On the flip side, you do get rear AC vents, which is a boon in most Indian cities. The boot space, at 260 litres, is on par with the competition. The loading lip is low, which is a good thing, but a lower boot floor means loading heavy luggage will require quite an effort.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Driving Experience.The Grand i10 Nios is powered by a BS-VI compliant 1.2-litre four-cylinder petrol and a 1.2-litre three-cylinder BS-IV diesel engine. Both these engines are available with a five-speed manual gearbox and a Smart Auto AMT. What we are driving here is the petrol AMT variant in the Sportz trim. And although the motor makes 82bhp and 115Nm, the power is delivered in an extremely linear fashion. While it isn't as peppy as the Swift, it’s no slouch either.The engine is quite refined and you can barely hear it at city speeds. It is only when you want to make a quick overtake does the engine start being vocal; that too after the 4,000rpm mark. What is commendable, though, is the smooth AMT unit that offers seamless gearshifts. Being an AMT, it is slow to react to throttle inputs, but it gets the work done effortlessly. Hyundai has used electronic gear and clutch actuators that are lighter and offer quicker shifts. You can barely notice any jerks when driven sedately. But drive it with a heavy foot, and you experience a pronounced head-nod.When it comes to ride and handling, the Nios gets the typical Hyundai traits. For instance, the steering is light in the confines of the city and weighs up considerably at highway speeds. However, it is vague at the centre and doesn't provide much feedback. Then there's the ride. Now, don't get me wrong. It is soft and cushy at low speeds but starts skipping and pitching over undulations at high speeds. The front suspension offers good rebound damping; however the same cannot be said about the rear shocks as the rear feels bouncy, making it uncomfortable for the rear-seat passengers.The engine is quite refined and you can barely hear it at city speeds. It is only when you want to make a quick overtake does the engine start being vocal; that too after the 4,000rpm mark. What is commendable, though, is the smooth AMT unit that offers seamless gearshifts. Being an AMT, it is slow to react to throttle inputs, but it gets the work done effortlessly. Hyundai has used electronic gear and clutch actuators that are lighter and offer quicker shifts. You can barely notice any jerks when driven sedately. But drive it with a heavy foot, and you experience a pronounced head-nod.When it comes to ride and handling, the Nios gets the typical Hyundai traits. For instance, the steering is light in the confines of the city and weighs up considerably at highway speeds. However, it is vague at the centre and doesn't provide much feedback. Then there's the ride. Now, don't get me wrong. It is soft and cushy at low speeds but starts skipping and pitching over undulations at high speeds. The front suspension offers good rebound damping; however the same cannot be said about the rear shocks as the rear feels bouncy, making it uncomfortable for the rear-seat passengers.Hyundai Grand I10 Nios Verdict.The third-generation Hyundai Grand i10 Nios makes for a formidable package with its long list of features, build quality, and more importantly, its all-new design. It is furnished with features like automatic climate control, eight-inch infotainment system, reverse camera, SmartKey with push-button start/stop and an industry-first variable warranty. That, combined with the seamless auto transmission and the Korean reliability, not only attracts the millennials but a wide spectrum of family buyers as well.Priced between INR 500000-800000 (ex-showroom India), it costs significantly lesser (around Rs 35,000 for the top-end trims) than the Maruti Suzuki Swift. Besides the latter, it also competes against the Ford Figo and the Renault Triber.The hatchback gets subtle visual upgrades, several feature additions, and updated powertrains.The Hyundai i10 has been one of the most popular and longest-running nameplates for 15 years now. After the i10, Grand i10, and Nios, the carmaker has now launched the facelifted version of the Nios. So, do the changes make any difference and is the Nios a better car now? Let’s find out.Doesn’t Look Too Different.The facelifted Grand i10 Nios doesn’t get too many visual changes but the additions do lend it a slightly premium and bolder feel. The changes are mainly limited to the front profile with the new LED DRLs, and a new mesh grille that blends in with the minimalistic bumper. Just like the pre-facelift version, the fascia is dominated by the grille.  The young-looking profile of the Nios continues with new and unique 15-inch alloy wheels. The rear profile is completed by new LED tail lamps which give the impression of being connected by a lighting strip, but it's only a reflector panel. The boot lid design has been slightly altered due to the new lighting. Otherwise, the derriere pretty much looks the same - simple yet stylish.Hyundai I10 Nios interior .Subtle Changes To The Cabin.The clean and premium looking cabin of the Grand i10 Nios gets new seat upholstery design with ‘Nios’ written on the seats. Its cabin continues to feel quite airy with the light coloured interior theme. It gets enough storage spaces for your knick knacks too. We have to say that the hatchback’s cabin manages to give us a feel that we get from segment-above cars. That’s further complemented by good fit and finish and plastic quality.Hyundai I10 Nios Feature.A Feature-Rich Package.Hyundai cars are packed with features to the brim; and as per the Nios’ competition and price range, it’s well equipped. The pre-facelift’s highlighted features included a smooth-operating eight-inch touchscreen system, Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, wireless charger, automatic AC, and rear AC vents. New additions like automatic headlamps, cruise control, a tweaked instrument cluster, a USB Type-C fast charger, and blue footwell ambient lighting add to the convenience and make it better to be seated in. However, there are still some bits missing here, like LED headlamps, adjustable front headrests, and rear centre armrest which would’ve made it an even better package.Hyundai I10 Nios Safety,More Safety Features.Better safety is one of the most important highlights of the facelifted Grand i10 Nios. Four airbags are now standard, and the top-spec Asta gets curtain airbags too. Active safety features like electronic stability control, hill hold assist, and tyre pressure monitoring system have been added as well. One thing which Hyundai could have addressed was ISOFIX anchorages, which is still not standard and are limited to the top-spec variant.  Hyundai I10 Nios Engine and Performance.Yes and No. The 1-litre turbo-petrol and 1.2-litre diesel engines are no longer on sale and it now remains with its 1.2-litre petrol engine. The engine claims to deliver 83PS and 113Nm, while being paired with either a five-speed manual or an AMT. CNG is offered just like earlier, with a manual stick as standard. The change here is that this engine is now E20 (ethanol 20 percent blend) and BS6 Phase 2 compliant. It’s not a standout highlight because all the cars will be updated; but at least, it gets a head start.  The Hyundai Grand i10 Nios continues to be an easy-going and simple car to drive – smooth on the accelerator and comfortable in the slow-moving city roads. That said, it also remains well planted out on the highways, with comfortable cruising at around 100 km/hr. It isn’t sporty or enthusiastic to drive but you won’t have any complaints either.  Its ride quality is also good, as it manages to absorb most of the undulations in the city or at low speeds. Even as the speed increases, the suspension handles the shocks well but you do feel big potholes or undulations. The rear passengers might feel it to be a little bouncy as the surface changes.  Hyundai I10 Nios Verdict It has been three years since Hyundai launched the Grand i10 Nios, and this facelift came just in time. It’s still known for its stylish look, a premium cabin, a refined and smooth engine, and a good ride quality. But with these changes, the Nios is now a better and more premium offering than the pre-facelift model.Hyundai Grand i10 Nios Pros.RDE-compliant petrol engine,Enhanced safety features,Feature-rich cabinHyundai Grand i10 Nios Cons.No turbo-petrol/diesel powertrain,Average ride qualityHyundai Grand i10 Nios Introduction.The Hyundai ‘Grand i10’ moniker made its debut in 2013 and now, after a decade and in its third generation, the Nios hatchback has received yet another update. This time though, it’s a facelift and except for the cosmetic upgrades, the Grand i10 Nios gets new features, added safety, and a powertrain that’s ready for the forthcoming stringent emission norms. Does it still make for an ideal family hatchback? Let’s find out.Since this is a facelift version of the outgoing car, the shape and silhouette of the new Nios remain largely unchanged and it retains the same dimensions. Of course, it gets fresh styling in the form of a new face with an oversized wider grille with a glossy black mesh pattern. Gone are the circular fog lamps and the redesigned arrow-shaped DRLs have been housed on the bumper. While the sweptback design of the projector headlamps has been retained, pay attention, and you will notice that the brand logo is now flatter and gets an aluminium finish.View the Grand i10 Nios from the side and you see the same floating roof-like appearance with a blacked-out C-pillar. The only visual difference here is the new design for the 15-inch alloy wheels. However, the posterior has been slightly tweaked and it gets the new tail lamp clusters and a reflector stripe that runs across the width of the bonnet. No, this isn’t illuminated like the one in the new Venue. Overall, with these subtle changes, the new Nios still remains a well-proportioned and smart-looking hatchback.Hyundai Grand i10 Nios Interior.Step inside the cabin of the 2023 Nios, and you will see many familiar elements. It still follows a black and grey theme with the binnacle housing the eight-inch touchscreen unit and the instrument cluster. The layout of the instrument cluster has been revised and while it still remains an analogue unit, it gets a smaller MID screen which we have seen in other Hyundai models. The honeycomb pattern on the dashboard has been carried over too, and the materials used are high-quality making the cabin feel premium with impressive fit and finish.The front seats are comfortable, and come draped in light-grey fabric upholstery with good cushioning and support. While the driver-side seat can be adjusted for height with a tilt adjustment for the steering wheel, the headrests are fixed which will be inconvenient for tall drivers. Then there are ample storage spaces around with two cupholders at the centre, bottle holders in all doors, and a cooled glovebox to enjoy your cold beverages.Getting into the rear is easy with wide opening doors and the backrest has a nice relaxed angle while the bench seat has decent under-thigh support. Having said that, the rear row is a little tight on shoulder room and seating three wouldn’t be a comfortable experience. However, occupants do get large windows, aircon vents, and a 12-volt socket along with a seatback pocket behind the front passenger seat. The boot space at 260-litres is sufficient and the low lip further makes loading heavy luggage an easy affair.Like any other Hyundai, the new Nios is well-equipped and with this update, the cabin benefits from auto headlamps, cruise control, and blue-colour footwell lights in the front row. The infotainment unit supports wired Apple CarPlay and Android Auto and the option to access several menus with the physical buttons further enhances its usability. Other noteworthy additions include a wireless charging pad and a Type-C fast charging port along with the conventional USB port.Lest we forget, all the variants of the new Hyundai Grand i10 Nios get four airbags (dual-front and dual-side), rear parking sensors, and ABS with EBD. Pick the higher trims and they come with a reverse parking camera, a tyre pressure monitor, and even six airbags for the top-spec Asta variant.Hyundai Grand i10 Nios Driving,Engine and Performance.With the 2023 update, the Hyundai Nios has bid adieu to the peppy 1.0-litre turbo-petrol and 1.2-litre diesel mills. So, the Nios soldiers on with the existing 1.2-litre naturally-aspirated petrol engine that puts out 82bhp and 114Nm of torque. The motor is also offered in a CNG version that generates 68bhp/95Nm. While the petrol guise is offered with a five-speed manual and an AMT unit, the CNG alternative sticks to the manual gearbox only.As Hyundai says, the good thing about the petrol motor is that it is RDE or Real Driving Emissions ready, which means that the new Nios is compliant with phase two of BS6 emission norms which will be effective from 1 April, 2023. Moreover, the Nios’ petrol engine continues to be one of the quiet and most refined motors in the business. The mix of a light clutch with smooth gear shifts makes it extremely easy to drive in the city. Sure, it doesn’t feel as lively like its turbo version and the power delivery is quite linear, the Nios does pick pace post 2,400rpm and pulls cleanly without hiccups till 5,000rpm.The engine doesn’t knock or lug at lower speeds and with an adequate bottom-end grunt, it is easy to drive the Nios in a gear higher than the intended one. Even at highway speeds, cruising at 80-100kmph is effortless, and it doesn’t feel strained and manages to keep pace without any complaints. Having said that, as you climb up the speed, the tyre noise does filter into the cabin.The steering, like most Hyundais, is light but devoid of feel. It’s quick and even self-centres, which is a boon in city traffic and parking the Nios in tight spots is a breeze. However, out on the highways, although you can sense it weighing up, it just feels disconnected. Talking about the ride quality, the Hyundai Nios absorbs small bumps and undulations at moderate speeds easily. However, accelerate and ride the hatchback through some sharp potholes or ruts, the ride gets unsettled and can be felt inside the cabin. The ride also gets a bit bumpy at the rear before the suspension settles back.Hyundai Grand i10 Nios Verdict.The Hyundai Grand i10 has completed a decade in the Indian market. And with this mild rehash, even today, it makes for a great family hatchback as it offers a myriad of features, is easy to drive, and has a well-appointed cabin. The petrol engine too, with the convenience of an AMT, is refined and is future-ready for stricter emission norms.Yes, the new Nios doesn't have a spacious rear row and the diesel and turbo-petrol mills are sorely missed. But, at a starting price of INR 56800000 (ex-showroom), the Nios is approximately Rs 25,000 to Rs 48,000 more than the outgoing version, and with that premium, the hatchback offers a CNG version and enhanced safety features which indeed make for a compelling buy.
