Maruti Suzuki Baleno Expert Review.
The Maruti Suzuki Baleno nameplate has been around for a long time now. Enthusiasts still revere the Baleno Sedan that was launched in 1999 and was produced until 2007. After its discontinuation, the Baleno nameplate was gone for a long time. In 2015 though, it made a comeback, this time in the form of a hatchback.Initially, enthusiasts were a bit disappointed to see the Baleno name being used on a hatchback that was nowhere close to the charm of the old sedan. Time, however, has a way of dealing with criticism. The Maruti Suzuki Baleno hatchback went on to become one of the bestsellers in the premium hatch segment and is much-loved by its users.Over nine hundred thousand Baleno hatchbacks have been sold in the Indian market so far. However, it was time for the next generation Baleno to arrive, and so it has. Spy images of the new Baleno started surfacing last year, and on 23 February 2022, Maruti Suzuki launched the 2022 Baleno.Does it carry the charm of the Baleno? Do the fancy features on offer make it more value for money? We got behind the wheel of the new Maruti Suzuki Baleno in Goa to find out. Maruti Suzuki Baleno Design and Style.Since it was first launched, the Maruti Suzuki Baleno always carried a mature yet refreshing and youthful design language. This made it a favourite among ambitious, young individuals looking for a premium hatchback. Redesigning the hatchback for the 2022 model without compromising on that character was going to be a tough job.That being said, the designers at Maruti Suzuki seem to have done a fantastic job on the design and styling with the new 2022 Baleno. Though the silhouette of the vehicle remains the same as the older model, many defining design and style elements have changed. View the new Baleno from the front and the first element that will grab your attention are the stylish headlamps. It is sweptback like the outgoing model. However, it is sleeker and makes the front end look sportier. These are projector units and have the turn signal indicators integrated into them.Then of course, there is the NEXWave Grille, that enhances the bold design and styling up front. The grille element is unique and it looks great, especially with the accentuated chrome strip underneath it. The bumper too features an all-new design and only adds to the youthful design of the 2022 Baleno.The bumper also houses the lower grille which is flanked by the fog housing on both sides. Maruti Suzuki calls this design language ‘Liquid Flow' and this has only been enhanced with the arrival of this new model. The design lines are clearly seen on the bonnet and even on the side profile.View it from the side, and the strong shoulder line, and sharp character line is very catchy. However, the 16-inch alloy wheels are more attractive. The diamond-cut dual-tone alloy wheels have a unique design that sets it apart. The new Baleno quite simply boasts the most stylish alloy wheels in the premium hatchback segment.Get to the rear and you suddenly realise how mature a hatchback the Baleno has become, especially in terms of the design and styling. You now get a split tail lamp design. The LED tail lamps integrate the liquid flow design very well indeed, and the combination of curves and LED matrixes inside it make the tail lamps look oh-so-brilliant.The slopping roofline, spoiler with integrated stop lamp and chiseled bumper add to the mature, yet youthful design. The thick chrome strip makes the hatchback feel so much more premium than it already is. The rear camera has also been integrated into this chrome strip.On the whole, the Maruti Suzuki Baleno has now become prettier and curvier than its previous iteration. It looks brilliant and it is hard to put a finger on any design elements that could have made it better. Maruti Suzuki Baleno Interior.This is where the new Maruti Suzuki Baleno has been extensively upgraded when compared to the older model. It features a revised cabin layout and an all-new dashboard with a couple of segment-first features. Tug on the door handles and swing open the doors, and the difference the new interior makes is immediately seen. Maruti Suzuki says it is a state-of-the-art cabin with smooth and natural flow lines. Well, one can make out that the design lines from the exterior have made it inside the cabin as well.The Maruti Suzuki Baleno features a dual-tone interior with Blue and Black being the theme colours. The dashboard and steering wheel though get silver accents that add a more premium touch to the interior. You also get piano black inserts at certain areas. The top of the dashboard is finished in Black while the mid-section is finished in a shade of blue. Separating the black and blue here is the silver strip that emulates the chrome strip seen on the grille up front. This silcer strip also underlines the centre AC vents which are placed underneath the 9-inch infotainment unit,The 9-inch Smartplay Pro+ infotainment unit is the centre of attraction inside the 2022 Maruti Suzuki Baleno. It boasts Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity which gives you access to various features including navigation, your favourite music apps, etc. Pairing your phone with the system is a fairly straightforward process and the interface is easy-to-use and intuitive. Sound is reproduced via ARKAMYS speakers supported by Surround Sense technology. This allows you to customise the sound produced by the speakers according to your taste. You do get a great amount of bass which we're sure most Indians would love. However, the speakers themselves could have been of higher quality, which is a fact that is made apparent, especially at higher volume levels.There is also a 360-degree camera on offer which is surprisingly very good. The video feed presented on the screen is of high quality and the latency is just not there as proven by a test. At the test location, a Baleno with extremely dark tint was dedicated for us to test just how accurate the 360-degree camera is. We drove around a set course with only the camera feed as our visual guide. Pretty impressive indeed. The new Maruti Suzuki Baleno is also offered with Suzuki Connect, which is Maruti Suzuki's telematics solution. This allows you to be connected with the car at all times and gives you access to some first-in-segment features. You can now remotely operate the headlamps, hazard lights, door locks, engine immobiliser, etc, remotely.Thanks to Suzuki Connect, you can also now cool the cabin through a command on your phone. It also gets the usual safety features such as vehicle tracking, geofencing, vehicle alerts, etc. You also get Amazon Alexa and Smarwatch connectivity with the new Maruti Suzuki Baleno and that allows you to give voice commands to the car. Very tech-savvy indeed. Coming back to the dashboard, you have the controls for the automatic climate control under the blue element. The centre console is pretty simple and straightforward. You get a cubbyhole ahead of the gear lever. Behind the gear lever is the handbrake lever and then comes the centre armrest. This armrest opens up to reveal another cubbyhole for added storage space.The steering wheel is brand new and seems to have taken a lot of inspiration from the steering wheel on the Maruti Suzuki Swift. You do get sgterring-mounted controls for the audio, voice commands, and cruise control. It also gets tilt and telescopic adjustment. Behind the steering wheel is a digital-analogue instrument cluster. The tachometer and speedometer are analogue units while the MID in between displays lots of information for the driver. It displays the distance-to-empty, average fuel efficiency, current fuel efficiency, trip meters, odometer, etc.This brings us to what is probably the most-talked-about feature and one of the most useful features on the new Maruti Suzuki Baleno. Yes, we are now coming to the Head-Up Display (HUD). There is a little control panel to the right side of the dashboard that allows you to control the HUD.There is a button to raise the HUD display in front of the driver on the dashboard. The screen raises up in a dramatic fashion and it is an uber-cool feature that you can even flex. Then there are buttons to adjust where the information is projected on that HUD screen. This feature allows the driver to get information about the car without taking eyes off the road.The overall quality of the materials used in the new Baleno is also impressive. In addition to this, the sheer number of features and advanced technology offered in the hatchback, makes it one of the best cabins in the segment.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Comfort , Practicality and Boot Space.The same dual-tone blue & black theme is found on the seats as well. These seats are finished in fabric and score very high in the styling department. The driver and co-passenger seats offer excellent thigh support with a good amount of bolstering as well. Taking tight corners is easy work with seats like this.In terms of cushioning too, the new Maruti Suzuki Baleno has more than enough to keep the driver and front passenger in comfort even over longer periods of time. Roadtrips and long hours behind the wheel are bound to be a breeze in the Maruti Suzuki Baleno. At the rear too, Maruti Suzuki seems to have prioritised comfort over anything else. There is a good amount of legroom, knee room, and headroom, so space isn't a constraint. Also, the transmission tunnel in the middle isn't too tall, which leads to more comfort for the passenger in the centre. Yes, the new Maruti Suzuki Baleno can seat three people in relative comfort.This being a premium hatchback, lacks one very important feature. The passengers at the rear do not get the fold-down armrest, and thereby also miss the cupholders that are usually integrated into the same armrest. However, passengers at the rear do get AC vents and USB charging ports.The door pockets also have lots of space in them enough space to accommodate a 1-litre bottle along with some knick-knacks. Maruti Suzuki always makes practical cars and the new Baleno is no different. You do get a 60:40 split-folding rear seat that allows for a more practical loading of luggage as and when required. The boot space with the rear seat up is 318-litres which is the largest in the segment.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Engine Performance and Driving Impressions.The 2022 Maruti Suzuki Baleno is powered by the same 1.2-litre petrol engine that we in the Indian market are now very familiar with. It is the same engine that powered the outgoing model of the Baleno, however, it now comes with one major change. Maruti Suzuki has done away with the mild-hybrid system that was previously found on the Baleno.The 1,197cc, 4-cylinder, naturally-aspirated petrol engine has a maximum power output of 88.5bhp at 6,000rpm and a peak torque output of 113Nm at 4,400rpm. There is yet another major change when compared to the older Baleno, this time with the gearbox.The Maruti Suzuki Baleno was previously available with a 5-speed gearbox, or one could also opt for the CVT gearbox. Now though, Maruti Suzuki has shelved the CVT gearbox in favour of an AMT. We drove both transmission variants of the new Baleno and both of them are quite impressive.Thumb the starter button and the four-cylinder engine quietly comes to life. It is quite apparent that the engine is very smooth and this feeling is only reinforced when you slot it in gear and set off. Low-end grunt is brilliant for a petrol engine of this size and the engine is quick to rev. Mid-range performance is also great and the Baleno picks up speed pretty quickly. The engine sounds good until about 5,000rpm and it becomes a little gruff after that. However, it is nothing to complain about. The power too tapers off at higher engine speeds which is typical of a K-Series engine.Also typical of a K-Series engine is the strong mid-range and low-end driveability and the 1.2-litre petrol in the new Baleno offers just that. It is easy to reach triple-digit speeds and it is also easy to stay there. Overtaking at high speeds though will take some effort and that is alright given the engine size. You might even have to downshift to get that extra drive. Speaking of gearshifts, the manual gearbox is near perfect. Shifting is smooth and it requires shorter and effortless throws. This makes the driving experience dynamic and engaging. The little details matter here. The centre console is raised to bring the gear lever into an optimal position for the driver to make those quick gearshifts.As expected of a Maruti Suzuki car with a petrol engine, the clutch pedal is nice and light. This is certainly a boon in the urban jungle, especially while tackling stop-and-go traffic. Now, there is another variant where the clutch pedal is non-existent. The 5-speed AMT is obviously the most convenient option here. However, the compromise on performance to achieve more fuel efficiency is also quite obvious. We did that there is a little lag while shifting and it wasn't as quick as we wanted it to be, Shifting to the manual mode does improve shifting time and response to an extent, however, it is still slower than a manual gearbox.The new Maruti Suzuki Baleno features a reworked suspension setup and this allows for a more dynamic driving experience. It definitely handles better than the older model and this is especially true around tight corners taken at moderate speeds. However, we did wish for it to be more planted at higher speeds. At low and moderate speeds, potholes are soaked up pretty well. At triple-digit speeds though, potholes unsettle the car and so do bumps. We expected the steering wheel to be extremely light at low speeds and weigh up as speeds increase. However, we found that the wheel was pretty heavy even at lower speeds. This can make long hours in traffic a little uncomfortable.When you turn the wheel enthusiastically, the car responds pretty quickly and nicely, which goes to show that handling has improved drastically over the outgoing model. Body roll is well controlled and this boosts the driver's confidence. Maruti Suzuki has improved braking performance on the new Baleno and it is quite tangible. We did end up wishing for more initial bite, but the difference in braking over the older model is felt. A set of disc brakes at the rear would have been much better instead of the current drum brake setup.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Safety and Key FeaturesMaruti Suzuki has in the past faced enough flak for the safety features in its cars. However, it doesn't look like it will face any such issues with the new Baleno. It does come with quite a few safety features.Safety Features: - Six Airbags - ABS with EBD - ESP - ISOFIX Child Seat Anchor Points - Seat Belt Reminder - Rear Parking Sensors - Hill Hold Assist With safety features like these, Maruti Suzuki has significantly upped the safety levels on the new Baleno.2022 Maruti Suzuki Baleno Key Features: - Head Up Display - 9-Inch Smartplay Pro+ Infotainment - 360-Degree Camera - Next-Gen Suzuki Connect - Cruise Control - Rear Type-A & Type-C Charger - Rear AC Vents - Tilt & Telescopic Steering. Maruti Suzuki Baleno Verdict.The Maruti Suzuki Baleno was always a car that was loved by its users. Now, with the new Baleno, Maruti Suzuki has taken things to the next level. It definitely carries forward the charm of the old Baleno but is so much more modern and gets some features that aren't even available in the next couple of segments.The Baleno is also now safer and the AMT gearbox makes life behind the wheel easier. It is difficult to find something in the new Baleno to complain about. So, yes it is a massive improvement over the outgoing model.FieldMaruti Suzuki Baleno Introduction.The reason the new Maruti Suzuki Baleno looks a lot like the old Maruti Baleno, says the team that developed it (at a not inconsiderable cost of Rs 1,150 crore), is that they wanted people to recognise it as nothing but a Baleno. They certainly achieved that and then some, because it looks perhaps a little too much like the car it replaces, to the point that many might mistake it for a mere facelift. That couldn’t be further from the truth though, as this is a brand-new model from the grounds up, with entirely different body panels, a completely new interior, improved safety and lots more equipment. In short, it’s way more than meets the eye.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Exterior.Though the overall shape is the same, every single body panel on this Baleno is new. The bonnet is flatter and wider, the grille is much larger, as is the chrome applique that runs beneath it. The lower bumper has a lot more sculpture and houses new LED fog lamps. The most obvious change is the new set of LED headlamps that feature the Nexa brand’s new three-block Daytime Running Lamps signature (we saw something similar on the XL6 before this) that are wider at the base and then sweep up into the front fenders like before. It gives the nose a greater sense of width, and a similar trick is used at the rear, where the LED tail-lamps – also with a three-block signature – extend onto the new tailgate.The new rear bumper is, as before, rather tall and once again requires you to haul luggage over a high loading lip into the sizeable 318-litre boot (albeit 21 litres less than before). In profile is where things look largely the same, and the Baleno’s cab-forward shape hints at the big space on the inside. The chrome strip under the windows kicks up at the C-pillar now, and there’s a new set of dual-tone, precision-cut 16-inch alloy wheels, but you’ll also notice there’s quite a chasm between the wheels and arches. Incidentally, the car is 5mm shorter and 10mm lower than before, but you can barely tell.And, yes, for those asking about crash worthiness, Maruti Suzuki states the new Baleno meets all current crash test norms and, in fact, uses a greater percentage of high-strength and ultra-high-strength steel in its construction. This combined with the additional equipment has resulted in a weight gain to the tune of 55kg in top-spec models, and yes, for what it’s worth, you can feel a bit more heft in the door shut than before.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Interior.The old Baleno’s interior design was unique, with its V-shaped centre console and big, circular AC display, but beyond that, there wasn’t much to write home about. This time, there is, and the interior transformation is even bigger than the one outside. The new dashboard design is aesthetically pleasing with its bold use of blue and dark grey primary plastics, and glossy light grey and piano black accents. The sportier flat-bottom steering from the Swift has been brought in here, which suits the new cabin much better, and the dials, though analogue, are crisp and easy to read. Pride of place, of course, belongs to the new 9.0-inch touchscreen (more on this later) that sits bolt upright in a monolithic binnacle and is within easy reach. You can even find some ‘borrowed’ design elements from luxury cars – which is only a good thing – like the central AC vents from BMW and the speaker grilles from Audi, for example.More than even the design, though, what impresses is the immediately noticeable step up in quality, which has gone from hard-wearing and passable to potentially class leading. There’s a softness to the leatherette on the steering wheel and particularly the elbow rests that feels very premium, and there’s a rich texture to all of the plastics. Even the new toggle-like AC controls are well damped and backlit. In fact, we’d go as far as saying the Baleno sets a new high watermark for Maruti Suzuki in terms of quality.What lets the interior down and stands out like a sore thumb in this otherwise well-executed cabin is the basic-looking knitted roof liner; a woven one would have completed the premium package. You get big door pockets, a well-sized glovebox and decent storage in the centre console, with big cupholders and a small bin under the armrest.Also hugely improved are the seats. The front ones now feature more lateral and even shoulder support, and the bolsters, while not outright sporty, do offer more support than the flatter seats of before. There is a springy softness to them that adds another layer of comfort between you and the road. The rear seats too are far better contoured, offering up good under-thigh and lateral support. Space was always excellent back here and that hasn’t changed; there’s plenty of room for even tall passengers to stretch out, but it’s a shame there is no rear armrest. What they have added, however, is rear AC vents and two USB ports – a standard one and a Type C. Incidentally, up front, you get a 12v socket and a standard USB for charging and data transfer.Maruti Suzuki Baleno features and Safety.Having lagged behind rivals in the past, Maruti knows it needs to have the latest features and technology, more so in this premium hatchback segment, and has loaded the new Baleno up. The obvious place to start is the new touchscreen, which at 9.0 inches feels like a properly modern unit. It’s responsive to touch, aesthetically pleasing, has a high refresh rate and smooth animations, and is high resolution too. Unusually, this new Smartplay Pro+ system comes only on the top Alpha variant, while lower variants get a smaller 7.0-inch touchscreen, with the Zeta getting a more basic Smartplay Pro software, and the Delta getting the last-gen SmartPlay Studio interface from the old car.The Pro+ software feels bang up to date though. It gets voice commands, connected car tech with a partner app and Amazon Alexa integration (this last feature was not yet installed on our test cars). There is no onboard e-SIM though, and it will rely on your smartphone for data. It also gets a six-speaker sound system with Arkamys surround software that lets you pick from presets or adjust a number of facets of the audio. Unfortunately, despite all the settings, the sound isn’t quite as crisp or punchy as we’d have liked, and rivals offer better.Then there are the two segment-first features – a 360-degree camera array and a heads-up display (HUD) – neither of which feels strictly necessary in a family hatchback, but both of which do add a lot of wow factor. The surround camera display isn’t the sharpest, but it gets the job done, even showing you a 3D external view of the car, and you can always switch to a standard rear-camera layout if you prefer. The HUD actually packs in a lot of info, like speed, revs, real-time fuel economy, current gear, and even changing AC fan speed and temperature. But you don’t really need any of that info to constantly look at, do you? What you really could use at eye level though is turn-by-turn navigation and that’s sadly missing, but Maruti Suzuki says it will come a few months down the line with a software update.Other than the much-touted HUD, segment staples return: auto climate control, auto-folding mirrors, auto headlamps, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto (albeit not wireless), cruise control, keyless entry and go, rear wash and wiper, and a colour MID and trip computer. Some popular features that rivals offer are missing here though, like a cooled glovebox, a tyre pressure monitor, digital dials, a sunroof and a wireless phone charger.Apart from the aforementioned chassis and body strengthening, safety has been given a bump up with six airbags on the top two variants, ESP with hill hold on all AMT variants, and front disc brakes an inch larger at 14 inches. Apart from that, there’s the standard stuff like rear parking sensors, ABS with EBD, ISOFIX child seat mounts, speed and seatbelt warnings, and standard dual airbags.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Engine.Under the bonnet, things also seem to be the same as before, but again, not quite. In its last iteration, the Baleno came with two 1.2-litre naturally aspirated petrol engines – the K12B with 83hp and the K12C with 90hp. The former was an older generation of this engine and came with a five-speed manual or a CVT auto. The latter, a newer version, came only with a manual, but featured ‘DualJet’ – Suzuki speak for two injectors per cylinder – dual variable valve timing (VVT) and a higher compression ratio. But it also got an integrated starter-generator with engine stop-start and a mild-hybrid system with a second battery that even added a mild electric boost.The new Baleno uses an even newer version of the engine, called the K12N. First introduced in the facelifted Swift and Dzire, it ditches the mild hybrid system, but retains everything else from the K12C, including its outputs of 90hp and 113Nm. What’s also been ditched is the CVT automatic option in favour of a five-speed AMT, in all likelihood to improve fuel economy – at 22.94kpl, a claimed 15 percent increase over the CVT – and help lower emissions to meet the upcoming CAFE 2 regulations. What’s it like in practice though?The quest for better economy means it’s not quite as free revving as the original K12B, but then it’s still more enthusiastic than some rivals’ naturally aspirated 1.2 engines. This K12N still gets you off the line without hesitation, but dips into a weak mid range just before the 2,000rpm mark. Keep the revs going and it gets a second wind at around 4,000rpm. Suffice it to say, if you want to maintain a steady and heady pace in the new Baleno, you should keep the revs high, but just to amble along around town, it’ll do it quite smoothly at low revs. Refinement remains pretty good, with both engine and road noise staying out of the cabin for the most part.The five-speed manual now uses a hydraulic clutch rather than cable-actuated one, and though the benefit wasn’t immediately apparent in our short stint of driving, a back-to-back comparison with the old car would undoubtedly reveal an improvement. The clutch action is light, and the gearbox itself is nice enough to row through, with smooth, short throws.As for the shift from CVT to AMT, yes, it does feel like a step backward in terms of the smoothness you expect in a premium hatchback. The Baleno was the sole CVT offering in the Maruti line-up and this was one thing that set it apart from the Swift, which also uses an AMT. The Baleno’s AMT, however, is one of the better of its kind, and you can tell the technology has come a long way. You will still get noticeable hesitation and ‘head nod’ between first, second and third gears at anything above crawling pace. There’s a manual mode operated via the lever; recommended if you’re really in a hurry, but even here there’s a slight pause during shifts. However, the advantages to fuel economy – and price (the Alpha AMT is roughly Rs 35,000 cheaper than the equivalent CVT of before) – should make most overlook the shortcomings for the convenience of two-pedal motoring.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Features.The Baleno has been given all-new suspension, and you can tell within a few minutes of driving. Almost all components have been replaced, with notable changes including a new torsion beam at the rear, new springs all around, 20mm of increased suspension travel and recalibrated damping at all four wheels. The resultant ride quality can best be described as more sophisticated, as it improves comfort with almost no cost to handling.The old Baleno rode well enough, but felt a bit brittle and stiff kneed at times, whereas this one soaks up much more of a bad road. It’s clearly softer than before, which is what you will want in this car’s natural environment – the city. Low-speed ride is great and even at a middling pace, you’ll like how well it irons out road imperfections. It’s only once you get to highway speeds that you’ll feel some pitch and bounce in the back seat, and that’s something to bear in mind on an outstation trip.Handling, meanwhile, has also taken a step forward, thanks in a big way to the upgraded steering. A huge weak point on the old car, this new one has been given a lot more weight, it turns the car a lot quicker and it returns to centre far more willingly. It’s nice and light at low speeds, making it great for urban manoeuvrability, but it adds some reassuring weight as you go faster. It’s still not the most feelsome though, and there is a bit of slack at the straight-ahead position. The suspension also delivers good body control at speed, giving you confidence to make high-speed lane-change manoeuvres, and the small amount of roll you get in corners is a forgivable amount. So while not the last word in driver engagement, for its purpose as a city car with occasional highway use, the new Baleno works brilliantly.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Pricing .As you might imagine, with all the improvements and additions, the Baleno’s price has gone up, starting at INR 635000 and going up to INR 949000 ex-showroom, India. It still comes across as very good value though, as in its segment, only the Tata Altroz is priced lower, with the Hyundai i20’s prices going a few hundred thousand higher. An important difference, however, is that each of those rivals offers buyers the choice of three engines – an entry level 1.2 petrol, a diesel and a turbo petrol. The Baleno has to fend all these options off with just a single engine, and not the strongest one at that. The K12N does its job well enough, but buyers looking for that bit more excitement will be left wanting.As for the shift from CVT to AMT for the automatic, thankfully it doesn’t feel like as big a step back as we feared, and it’s only a matter of time before you learn to drive around the hesitation of the shifts. The Baleno should have looked more different to the old car too, simply to do justice to all the engineering that’s gone into it; just look at the new Celerio versus the old one. It’s all too familiar, but at least it’s bold and features all the design elements Indians like in their cars.Ultimately, while the Baleno doesn’t break any new ground, it has been updated in all the right areas to make it a more-premium premium hatchback. There’s far greater sophistication in the ride and handling department, it sets new benchmarks for interior quality and comfort, and the safety and equipment on offer is right up there with the best.Last year showed us that rivals are slowly but surely eating into the market leader’s dominance, and this is a clear sign that India’s biggest carmaker isn’t going to take it lying down. Where previous Maruti Suzuki products have felt capable and sensible, but not much more, the new Baleno feels like a concerted effort to not just be the bestseller, but the best product in its segment.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Introduction.If a car is priced under INR 100000 and wears a Maruti Suzuki badge it is destined to be successful. But the Baleno is very important to Maruti for very different reasons. It is their first foray into the premium hatchback segment which is dominated by Hyundai’s classy i20. The Baleno is also the second model to be sold out of the more premium Nexa group of dealerships. After Nexa took a big hit with the unenthusiastic response for the overpriced S-Cross, the pressure is on Baleno’s small car shoulders to justify Maruti’s premium marketing tactics.On paper, the Baleno has all the ingredients to do just that. It looks masculine, has sedan-rivalling cabin space, it comes powered by proven engines and has loads of features to justify its premium positioning. Unlike the S-Cross, Maruti has got Baleno’s pricing spot on with it undercutting the i20 and the Honda Jazz by a considerable margin.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Design and Style.Based on the new ‘liquid flow’ design language, Maruti has attempted to make the Baleno look muscular and flowing and to a certain extent, they are successful too. There’s no doubt the Maruti Baleno does turn heads; it’s got a purposeful stance and the wide body lends it strong road presence.Dominating the front-end styling is the V-shaped grille, which is flanked by a pair of projector headlamps which also feature daytime-running LEDs as part of the top Alpha trim. But the headlamps which are reminiscent of the old Swift look a bit too small compared to the rest of body. We especially like the rising window line and the flowing curves on the doors which gives the Baleno a very modern look.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Interiors.Unlike the stylish exterior, the cabin looks more mainstream and Maruti has kept things simple. The dashboard though minimalistic is smartly styled, with the large touchscreen infotainment system dominating proceedings. The Delta trim which is the only variant the automatic car comes with, gets a traditional music system which looks a bit downmarket. The touchscreen system on the top Alpha variant also features CarPlay which is an India first. The screen itself is crisp and oozes of quality. The same can’t be said about the rest of the cabin though.  Plastic quality and fit and finish though decent is not as nice as the Hyundai i20 or even the Honda Jazz. Lower down and on the door pads it’s apparent that Maruti has cut corners and plastics feel hard and shiny. There are many bits shared with the cheaper Swift too, like the power window switches, steering wheel, stalks etc.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Safety and Equipment.In the top Alpha trim the Baleno comes equipped with touchscreen infotainment system which houses Apple CarPlay, navigation and a music system. Apart from this the Baleno gets all the basics like climate control, key-less go, reverse camera with sensors, auto headlamps, daytime running lamps and a comprehensive trip computer with a colour screen on the instrumentation. The Baleno CVT however comes only in the mid Delta variant and it misses out on important features like touchscreen interface, key-less go, reverse camera, parking sensors, trip computer, alloy rims and fog lamps. In terms of safety, Maruti sets a new benchmark by offering two airbags and ABS as standard across the range.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Engine, Performance and Braking.The Baleno is powered by the same pair of petrol and diesel motors that does duty in the cheaper Swift. As the Baleno weighs nearly 100kg less than its smaller sibling it can get away with identical motors.The Baleno petrol automatic is powered by a 1.2 litre motor which is good for 83bhp and 115Nm of torque. As soon as you start the motor it settles down to a near silent idle. In peak hour stop-go traffic, we found the transmission well suited to the characteristics of the engine with notably less of the rubberband effect usually associated with CVTs. Whether ambling in town or cruising at 80kph, the transmission keeps engine speeds within the 1200-2000rpm bracket for best efficiency. Part throttle responses are good too with a linear build of power from the 83bhp petrol motor. As a result, overtaking slower traffic isn’t much of an effort. If there’s a negative, it’s at full throttle, where revs are held at 5500-6000rpm (for max power) and make the engine sound loud and strained, but that is expected of a CVT transmission. In our flat-out acceleration tests, thanks to its low weight and responsive gearbox the Baleno automatic managed to post good times. It took 13.3 seconds to reach 100kph and the roll-on sprint from 20-80kmph is dispatched in a decent 7.41 seconds. The feeling of a rubberband effect as you go faster is reflected in the 40-100kmph time, which the Baleno does it in a rather sedate 10.17 seconds.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Ride and Handling.The Baleno isn’t a car that will engage the keen driver. Though it has decent body control, it simply doesn’t have the readiness to change direction as the Swift and it’s certainly not a car that enjoys being hustled. Its strength lies in the way it displays good stability at speed and handling is very safe and predictable, with no nasty surprises. As a family car, meant for sedate driving, the direct and precise steering and easy controls make it a stress-free car to drive.As for the ride, due to the light weight it does feels a bit jiggly at low speeds and not very adept at handling sharp bumps, and you can feel the suspension thump through the light body. Though it never gets to the point of being uncomfortable and it is something you can live with. However, as you go faster, it settles down to offer a fairly flat and consistent ride. The brakes on the other hand offer good bite and stopping power, but a more linear pedal feel would have been welcomed.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Price and Fuel Economy.In terms of fuel efficiency, the Baleno’s light weight has a big role to play. In the city, the petrol auto managed a very impressive 11.9kpl while out on the highway it managed to return a respectable 16.8kpl. The 1.3-litre diesel, on the other hand, was expectedly much more efficient. It returned 14.2kpl in the city and 19.6kpl on the highway. When you consider the diesel’s overall 15.5kpl (75 per cent city and 25 per cent highway), it gives it a fantastic range of around 575km before you need to refuel your 37-litre tank.Maruti has managed to price the Baleno very well with prices starting from INR 499000 for the best petrol and going up to INR 811000 for the top diesel Alpha variant. This makes it marginally cheaper than the Hyundai i20 and around INR 40-50 thousand cheaper than the Honda Jazz.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Verdict.As a straightforward, no-nonsense product, the Baleno does really well. It's a car with pretty much everything you would want from a premium hatchback. It's extremely spacious, has decent engines and you get loads of equipment for your money. It's pretty good from behind the wheel and rides well too. The engine is peppy enough for most situations and the good fuel economy means fuel bills won't burn a hole in your pocket either. Add Maruti's excellent after-sales and you get more than enough reasons to give the Baleno a serious thought. But as convincing as the Baleno is in most departments, it lacks the sparkle of the Hyundai i20 and the character of the Honda Jazz. However, it more than makes up for its somewhat lack of desirability by being the most affordable and sensible premium hatchback you can buy today.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Introduction.Maruti Suzuki is expanding its CNG range in India by adding gas power to its Nexa range of cars. This is a significant step in Maruti’s engine journey as CNG was once a fuel that was once looked upon as the choice of the yellow plate family. It has now made its way into the premium side of the market, indicating where Maruti will take this in the future. The first cars to get CNG in the Nexa range are the Baleno and XL6, both of which underwent major changes earlier this year.CNG power in the XL6 is available in the Zeta variant, which is the entry-level version of the six-seat MPV. Even in this entry-level model, you get quite a bit of kit, the likes of which include 16-inch dual-tone alloy wheels,  LED headlamps, chrome door handles, automatic climate control, roof-mounted AC vents for the second row, button start, cruise control, four airbags and Suzuki Connect.Maruti Suzuki Baleno Engine and Peformance.The CNG-petrol XL6 is powered by Maruti’s 1.5-litre K-Series engine producing 86.3bhp/121.5Nm in CNG mode and 100bhp/136Nm in petrol mode.The CNG-specific changes comprise a dedicated CNG fuel gauge with total CNG mode time, a fuel changeover switch with illumination and a non-split luggage board in the boot. Lastly, there’s no word on how much space the CNG consumes in the boot of this car as it’s slightly longer than the Ertiga, and that’s something we will be able to tell you once we drive the car. For reference, with all three rows up, the Ertiga’s boot capacity is 209 litres, with the CNG tank consuming at least 100-130 litres.In the Baleno, the 1.2-litre petrol engine produces 76bhp/98.5Nm in CNG guise and 88bhp/113Nm in petrol mode. The only gearbox offer is Maruti’s five-speed manual. The CNG tank is 55 litres, and you get a mileage of 30.61km/kg. The petrol stands at 22.35kmpl for the MT and 22.94kmpl for the AT versions.There’s an unofficial saying in the current avatar of the Indian car industry that when Maruti brings in some new form of innovation, everyone else follows suit in one way or another. It may be due to Maruti’s massive market share or just everyone playing cautious and treading the waters, waiting for the ‘Big Kahuna’ to open the doors.This is evident in the growth of CNG-powered cars. It’s more cost-effective and emits less (at the time of writing this first look at least) than a petrol-powered model, making an obvious case for the kind of cars that Maruti Suzuki produces. With Maruti looking to inroads into the premium segments, this seems like a logical way to offer an alternate fuel option to the current crop of diesel vehicles that are in heavy demand in this part of the market. Eventually, with diesel on their way out, petrol-CNG, hybrids, and BEVs will be the order of the day, and Maruti will have a first-mover advantage.The Maruti Suzuki XL6 CNG Delta has priced at INR 1224000, while the Baleno CNG in the Delta and Zeta variants are priced at INR 828000 and 921000, respectively. This is an increase of INR 130000 for the XL6 and INR 110000 for the Baleno compared to their petrol-only equivalents.