Maruti Suzuki Alto Expert Review :-
Maruti Suzuki Alto,Pros and cons Strong performance, AMT convenience ,City friendly dimensions .Cons are top end lacks essential features,Looks basic,Noisy at highway speeds.Maruti Suzkui Alto Engine and Performance,There’s one engine and two gearbox options to choose from, a 5 speed manual or a 5 speed AMT and what we have here is the AMT version which I believe is going to be the pick for majority of Alto buyeRs  Now it’s not the most seamless when it comes to changing gears, especially going up the gears but you know what it doesn’t really matter because at the end of the day it does exactly what it says on the box. It’s more convenient and easier to drive in traffic for new drivers and for those who are stepping into the world of automatics, this will do the job just fine. Under part throttle it’s smooth enough in its operation and gearshifts in general are imperceptible for the most part. Maruti has switched to their Heartec platform for the new K10 and we believe it has made it even lighter than before. As for the engine, the updated K10C delivers the slightest of improvement in claimed fuel efficiency over the old K10B engine. In fact, the Alto K10 is now rated at 24.39kmpl for the manual and 24.90kmpl for the AMT. This one-litre three cylinder engine is a strong unit and we have seen that already in the Celerio so to have it here in a car that’s even smaller and lighter makes the Alto K10 quite peppy at city speeds. It will get off the mark cleanly in second gear using the clutch alone and although we do not recommend you do that especially when the car is under load, it is nice to know that this engine is tractable and user friendly. Maruti Suzuki Alto Ride and Handling.What’s not so nice is the steering which I think is too heavy at low speeds especially for parallel parking and once you are up to speed it’s not like it weighs up positively because there is some vagueness around dead center position. The engine also gets very loud at high RPMs and when you factor in the limited sound deadening it becomes pretty clear that this Alto is not a car that you will relish driving at triple digit speeds on the highway.Maruti Suzuki Alto Exterior It’s been a couple of years since Maruti stopped selling the Alto K10 and if I am honest I was never a fan of how the facelifted K10 looked. I think it looked too basic from the sides and it had unusually large taillights and headlights which to my eyes messed up the overall look. Now when I look at this new K10, I am glad it doesn’t look anything like the old one. In fact, I love how the new K10 makes no bones about it being a basic hatch so it’s all simple lines and details when it comes to bodywork. So at the front you have a simple flat bumper with a large air dam which gets a honeycomb design for the grille. Now like I said, it’s all very simple and basic so you get halogen headlights, the Suzuki logo and that’s pretty much it. There are no flashy daytime running lights or even fog lights for that matter. In fact, you don’t even get a provision to fit aftermarket lights on this bumper.Moving to the sides, you have the side indicators on the fender of course. They are not on the wing mirrors and speaking of which, it’s not body colored anymore as you can see it’s finished in black so there’s that. Now the other visual cue that screams basic are the 13-inches 145 section tires and that’s really small but at least the profile is high so that’s good for absorbing bumps and potholes. The rear is one area where I feel the K10’s looks have improved the most. It doesn’t look bulky anymore and that is mainly because of the smaller taillights which I think are the right size finally considering how small the K10 is. Of course there’s no rear wiper or a switch to open the hatch from here so you will have to use the key for that. Maruti Suzuki Alto Comfort, Convenience and Features .Some of you might not see it but some of the design bits and the features come from more expensive Maruti models which is quite nice. So for instance you have the steering wheel which you will also find on the Ignis and the Wagon R. Then there’s the touchscreen infotainment display which is similar to the one on the new Celerio.Talking about quality levels and fit and finish, both are acceptable at this price point and even though you have scratchy plastics all over and majority of it is finished in black it looks hardwearing so I wouldn’t be worried about things falling apart for a long time. Now the K10 is a small car so naturally it’s got a cabin that’s also relatively small but one major advantage of this is that all the controls are within your reach and it takes no effort whatsoever even to do things like adjusting the outside mirror or the passenger side seat from the driver’s seat.Speaking of new features, you get a digital instrument cluster, steering mounted audio and phone controls and of course this seven-inch touchscreen infotainment system with four speakers and get this, Android Auto and Apple Carplay. For safety there’s dual front airbags, ABS, parking sensors at the back and front seat belts with pre-tensioneRs  So what are the things even Alto buyers might miss not having? I think electric mirrors and rear power windows would have made this cabin far more convenient. The other area where the new Alto K10 is better than the old car is right here at the back and it’s the amount of space. There is a decent amount of kneeroom for an average sized adult and yes, the rear seat is short and it lacks under thigh support but then again, this is a very small car and in that context it’s just fine. Overall, here at the back there’s nothing sumptuous or extra but I will say that there is a good amount of space for two adults at least. Maruti Suzuki Alto Verdict.So the new Alto K10 range starts a very reasonable 399000 rupees for the base variant but if you want this car which is a VXi Plus AMT you will have to spend nearly 585000 INR which I know is a lot of money. In all fairness, the new Alto K10 is nippy, it has enough space for a small family, a decent features list and even in this most expensive AMT variant, it represents good value and for a majority of small car buyers that’s the most important thing when they are looking to buy a new car.Maruti Suzkuki Alto Introduction,Maruti Suzuki first introduced its smallest offering, the Alto, in the Indian market in 2000. Two decades since its arrival, the automaker has sold more than 4300000 units of the hatchback. Given the number, it is safe to say that Alto has been one of the most sought-after cars for Maruti and the best-selling car in its segment. To be a part of the technology-driven automotive industry and keep the products up-to-the-minute, Maruti Suzuki just launched the all-new Alto K10 in the country with prices starting at INR 399000, ex-showroom. This Renault Kwid rival now comes with a fresh design, more features, and a new engine.Maruti Suzkuki Alto Exterior,The new Alto K10 has become the latest member to use the new Heartect platform. Maruti utilises this platform for all its caRs  However, the hatchback has not grown much in dimensions except for height and is 45mm taller than its predecessor. It carries the same width  and is, in fact,15mm shorter in length than the previous model. It also gets a 20mm additional wheelbase, which now stands at 2,380mm. Besides this, the new Alto K10 gets 214 litres of boot space, which is 37 litres more than the previous model.Furthermore, the new Alto K10 features a completely revamped exterior design. First, it gets a massive hexagonal grille in the bumper with a honeycomb-patterned design in black, raised bonnet and fenders, somewhat oval-shaped halogen headlights with integrated turn signals, and square-shaped halogen taillights. However, it is surprising to note that the hatchback neither features daytime running lights nor fog lamps. While it comes with 145/80 R13 section tyres, Maruti used to offer a set of 150/80 R13 in the previous model.This new hatchback is available in a choice of six paint options: Metallic Silky Silver, Metallic Granite Grey, and Solid White with new Metallic Speedy Blue, Metallic Sizzling Red, and Pearl Metallic Earth Gold. Maruti Suzkuki Alto Interior,Maruti Suzuki has given it an all-black interior scheme with silver inserts on the steering wheel, dashboard, and door handles. However, the most significant changes come in the form of a digital instrument cluster, seven-inch SmartPlay Studio touchscreen infotainment, and a redesigned steering wheel with audio and voice command controls. This infotainment system features Apple CarPlay and Android Auto.Although the SmartPlay Studio is available with the top-spec VXi+ manual/AMT trim, the VXi manual/AMT variant supports SmartPlay Dock, where a smartphone acts as a touchscreen infotainment system with an app. For this, Maruti also provides a smartphone mount on the dashboard. Maruti Suzkuki Alto Features,The brand has bestowed the new Alto K10 with numerous features, such as dual front airbags, speed sensing auto door lock, impact-sensing door unlock, high-speed alert, front seat belts with pre-tensioner and load limiter, anti-lock braking system, electronic braking distribution, reverse parking sensors, and a collapsible steering column. Additionally, it comes equipped with Bluetooth, four speakers, powered front windows, and an in-cabin filter. Besides this, Maruti Suzuki offers the torsion beam suspension setup at the rear, which replaces the three-link axle suspension. Maruti Suzkuki Alto Engine,The new Maruti Suzuki Alto K10 is powered by the new K10C 1.0-litre, inline-three, naturally aspirated petrol engine mated to a five-speed manual or AMT transmission. It delivers 66bhp at 5,500rpm and 89Nm of torque at 3,500rpm.The new K10C engine makes the merest improvement in the claimed fuel efficiency figures over the old K10B motor. For instance, the K10C can return 24.39kmpl with manual and 24.90kmpl with AMT. Whereas, the fuel economy figure of the previous model was rated at 24.07kmpl for both manual and AMT transmission. Although the new Alto K10 does not offer a CNG version yet, Maruti is expected to launch it in the coming months.Maruti Suzuki Alto,Introduction,The Maruti Suzuki Alto has not just been the bread-and-butter model for the carmaker but the best-selling moniker as well. This third generation of the Alto is up-to-date with the latest BS6 Phase 2 norms and comes with considerable changes in this new avatar. As it takes the fight with the newer entry-level Renault Kwid, our road test details all the specifications of the Alto K10 along with its real-world on-road performance.The Maruti Suzuki Alto has not just been the bread-and-butter model for the carmaker but the best-selling moniker as well. This third generation of the Alto is up-to-date with the latest BS6 Phase 2 norms and comes with considerable changes in this new avatar. As it takes the fight with the newer entry-level Renault Kwid, our road test details all the specifications of the Alto K10 along with its real-world on-road performance.Maruti Suzuki Alto Design and Dimensions,as the current Alto is now based on the carmaker’s Heartect platform that underpins many models, right from the Celerio to the XL6, it, too, has grown in size. In comparison to its predecessor, it has a longer wheelbase. Yet, the proportions are still nice and compact for an entry-level city car. We aren’t particularly fans of its quirky design, though this might be subjective. However, Maruti has still done a good job with the paint quality, panel gaps, and fit and finish for a car that's still one of the cheapest cars in India.Maruti Suzuki Alto Interior Look and Quality,Even inside its cabin, things are typical Maruti in terms of the dashboard's layout, hard plastics, black-grey accents, or even the quality of the fabric used for the upholstery. Though not outstanding, it’s satisfactory, as is the norm in this entry-level segment. Thankfully, the dark plastics look better than the lighter shade plastics from the outgoing model. Build quality is average, and despite cost-cutting measures, there are no exposed wires or elements that make the interior look unkempt.Thanks to the bigger size and longer wheelbase of the new Alto, space inside has increased quite a lot. Even the ingress-egress is better, and one doesn't have to crouch to get in. There's good headroom in the front, and an appropriate seating position with good visibility is offered for 5’8” individuals like me. This is despite the lack of many adjustments for the seat or the steering. Notwithstanding, taller drivers will find it difficult in here, with their knees close to the steering. However, things are within reach. In fact, a positive side of the car's narrow width is that adjusting the left ORVM from the driver's seat isn't a stretch.The seats have adequate padding and are nicely positioned to prevent any discomfort. Getting into the second row isn't difficult either. Now, given the car isn't wide, there's quite a shoulder overlap for three, and the tight headroom and fixed headrests mean limited comfort. But then, the under-thigh support isn't half as bad and knee- and legroom are surprisingly good for this compact car. Still, the space is adequate for two people at best. Besides, the cabin gets cooled fast, so you won't feel the absence of rear vents, and two adults can sit in a relaxed position on this bench. It makes for a good four-seater car rather than a five-seater one.Maruti Suzuki Alto Engine and Gearbox Performance,this small car is powered by the brand's entry-level 66bhp 1.0-litre three-cylinder engine. It goes without saying that it's compliant with the new BS6 norms and even comes with an optional CNG kit. Transmission options include an AMT gearbox and a five-speed manual as in this case. Twist in the key, and the engine starts to settle in a thrum that's audible but not noisy. The light clutch and gears slotting in smoothly make it an easy process to move ahead with a gentle dab on the accelerator. There's even a gear-shift indicator that will help new drivers with this tractable engine. It gets noisy at high revs, but you'd seldom do that as the driveability is good. Our in-gear acceleration figures reflect the same, with 11.24 seconds for 20-80kmph in the third gear and 16.01 seconds for the 40-100kmph run in the fourth gear. Even 0-60kmph comes up in 5.23 seconds and then 100kmph in 12.15 seconds shows how peppy the engine is. Thus, it is quite manageable to keep up with the traffic. That said, one will have to shift to lower gears for a quick sprint or while overtaking.Maruti Suzuki Alto Boot space and Practicality,the boot space at 214-litres isn't the best in this segment but adequate with a clear opening and without intrusions inside. There's a parcel tray available to organise small things on it but misses the strings to put it up with the tailgate. This is the only space for the rear occupants to stow any of their stuff. The second row is devoid of any storage places, save for the bottle holder in the lower centre console. Meanwhile, the front-row occupants benefit from two cup holders in the centre console, with a little more space to accommodate a phone and wallet. The doors get bottle holders but can accommodate slim one-litre units only.The entry-level segment of cars doesn't offer much in terms of equipment or features, and the Alto K10, unfortunately, retains this. This top-of-the-line VXi+ trim is still equipped with a manual air-conditioner, front power windows, and central locking as basic features. It could have been provided with a day-night IRVM, rear-wiper, defogger, and such equipment as a basic kit. However, this Alto gets steering-mounted controls and the brand's 17.78cm SmartPlay Studio touchscreen head unit which supports Android Auto and Apple CarPlay. It's astonishingly good to use in an entry-level car like this one and will be appreciated by owneRs On the safety front, the GNCAP crash test ratings are still pending for the Alto. Nonetheless, Maruti has equipped this K10 with some safety features as standard. This includes dual airbags, ABS, EBD, driver and passenger seatbelt reminder and pre-tensioners, reverse parking sensors, and speed-sensitive auto door locks.Maruti Suzuki Alto Ride, Handling, and Braking,The highways are where you feel the need for a more planted car to cruise at triple-digit speeds. The Alto K10 is better at 50-70kmph speeds and feels secure when restricted to 80kmph, which is mostly the speed limit at major places. The skinny tyres mean a lesser contact patch, but they have a high profile for the 13-inch wheels to deal with our road conditions. Also, with a nicely tuned suspension, the vehicle takes everything in its stride. Even at moderate speeds, there won't be a jolt heard inside, be it potholes, sharp-edged concrete openings, or expansion joints. That said, there is the side-to-side movement of occupants and the body roll becomes quite evident. However, slow down a bit, and you can confidently turn in the pointed direction. Also, you won't feel nervous under panic braking as the brakes are capable enough to halt the car. Now, although the steering lock-to-lock is a little more than three-and-a-half turns, which is quite a lot, the car's turning radius is tight. This, paired with a compact footprint, makes it easy to park, slot in narrow spaces, and overall makes it easy to drive.Maruti Suzuki Alto Fuel Economy,a claimed fuel efficiency of 24.39kmpl is outstanding for this manual version, as is 24.9kmpl for the AGS or automatic version. In our real world tests the manual returned 14.5kmpl in the city and 21.8kmpl on the highway providing a theoretical range of 416km on a full tank of 27litres.Maruti Suzuki Alto Price and Variants,Maruti Suzuki offers the Alto K10 in four variants — STD(O), LXi, VXi, and VXi+. An ex-showroom price of INR 399000 for the base STD(O) variant makes it one of the cheapest entry-level caRs  But do note that this trim doesn't even get body-coloured bumpers, air-conditioning, and power steering. Ideally, an owner would want these essentials, which are available from the LXi variant priced at INR 482000; the VXi costs INR 505000 and this VXi+ variant goes up to INR 534000. These top-spec variants are pricey and get more expensive if you opt for the automatic or CNG version. The AMT is available from the VXi which is priced at INR 560000, whereas the VXi+ AGS and the VXi S-CNG cost INR 589000 and INR  595000, respectively (all ex-showroom).Maruti Suzuki Alto Verdict,we wouldn't recommend the entry-level STD variant of the Maruti Suzuki Alto K10 as it lacks the basic features which are a necessity for car buyers in 2023. The mid-spec variants are the ones to go for if you’re on a tight budget. However, it still makes sense to slightly give that premium for the higher variants, which pack in more equipment and provide value for money while being useful. After all, the new Alto K10 has improved in terms of space, fit and finish, equipment, and fuel efficiency, at the same time, it retains its positive traits of peppy performance, driveability, and of course, Maruti's strong after-sales service network.Maruti Suzuki Alto Introdution,the ‘Alto’ brand is familiar to many. With over four million of them sold and 16 years of being the top-selling car in the country, there are literally lakhs of people out there who will have grown up with at least one or more Altos in the family.Personally I had two in the family, the 2005 Alto VXI and the 2010 Alto K10, but the perspective that I will have on this car isn’t really unique what with so many of them sold over the years and there will be many of you out there looking over the car with the same eagle eye. But what about the new customer? The customer who is looking at the Alto as his first car. Does it still hold up as a great entry point into life on four wheels?Off the bat I really have to tip my hat to the designers at Maruti for giving us such a clean design. Simple lines, a petite body and devoid of flashy embellishment; all the principles of a good design. There’s no extra plastic cladding, faux vents or any eyesore for that matter.Maruti Suzuki Alto Exterior,the sides are also devoid of any clutter. There's a simple shoulder line and a slight upward crease at the bottom of the door line and the only things that stand out really are the body-coloured door handles. Wheels, even on the top end variant are steel with plastic hubcaps, but there is an alloy wheel option in the accessory packs. The rear too is similarly devoid of much to talk about. The two large taillamps, logo and badging and a bumper design that matches the front. All quite simple and pleasing.On the road, the Alto does look a bit larger than before from all angles except head on or from the rear. From these two angles the narrow body gives away its actual compactness. This is because the dimensions have changed. The length has grown 85mm to 3530mm, height has increased by 45mm to 1520mm, but the width stays the same at 1490. The wheelbase has grown by 20mm to 2380mm which may sound like barely anything but in a small car, it makes a difference inside. Boot space has also increased to 214-litres.If you do find the styling of the Alto K10 a little bland to your taste, then Maruti has also showcased a couple of style accessorised packs called the ‘Impacto’ and ‘Glinto’ in case you need to spice up your car a little.Maruti Suzuki Alto Interior,the interiors are where being simple has created a few issues. The steering wheel isn’t  adjustable and while you can get a good driving position with good reach to steering and gear lever, ingress and egress is a little challenging for taller people.The layout of the dash is also pleasingly simple. Plastics are all hard and hard-wearing, but are well-put-together and feel solid. The 7-inch touchscreen with Maruti’s SmartPlay infotainment, the more basic version their interface, but it’s still crisp and snappy to use. It also features navigation as well as Android Auto and Apple CarPlay.Comfort-wise you have a manual AC, a 12V charging socket, USB and AUX ports as well. Storage in the front is also adequate with one litre bottle accommodated in both doors with room to spare for small knick-knacks, two cup holders and a phone pocket.Stepping into the rear and the Alto K10 bests its predecessor as soon as you’re seated. Gone are the days when the driver would have to compromise his driving position to accommodate adults in the second row. Now, with my driving position for my 5’10” frame, I have knee room to spare and ample legroom too. Headroom is also quite accommodating. But that’s all there is to talk about. The’re no armrest, no adjustable headrests, AC vents or charge ports to comment on. The windows even roll up and down manually.Maruti Suzuki Alto Engine,there's something very endearing about stepping into a small car again, you can pick the tiniest of gaps, cart through traffic and park just about anywhere and the Alto is no different. It’s powered by a 3-cylinder, 1.0-litre K-series, Dual Jet, Dual VVT motor that makes 67PS and 89Nm. It’s the same engine from the Celerio and S-Presso but in a small light chassis like this, it packs in more punch, more than enough for a quick overtake and if you're alone in the car it can be a little fun too.At city speeds you can't really hear the motor, but as engine speeds increase over 3000rpm there is engine and transmission noise that does become evident. Not unexpected, considering the 3-cylinder layout but it could have been a bit more refined. In terms of cabin insulation it's reasonably good, so not too much road noise creeps in. But like we said, build up revs and the engine can be heard.We're driving the AMT now and I'm really impressed with how far AMT tech has come. With this 5-speed automatic, shifts are really smooth. I literally experienced no head nod and yes, you can feel the shift and it’s not the quickest shift but it's super smooth.And the nice thing about it is that if you're cruising along and you need to complete an overtake or just catch up with traffic, a quick prod on the gas and it does a very quick kickdown into just the right gear to give you really decent acceleration.The only place you will feel head-nod is at full throttle shifts and that too when you’re in manual mode. If you're in regular AMT and hard on the accelerator, then the head nod is present but not really intrusive.With the manual gearbox, there’s not much to complain about and still nothing to praise it for either. It shifts reasonably smoothly, but the throws are long and there could be more feedback from the lever too.Maruti Suzuki ALto Driving Experience,one area that the Alto K10 really excels is in the way it rides. Over good and bad roads the suspension keeps the Alto K10 nicely planted. We managed to find some really big, sharp-edged potholes on our test route and the Alto didn't miss a beat over them. Not only did it not crash through them, it absorbed the bumps with poise.Even at higher speeds over fairly large undulations on our route the Alto quickly absorbed the impact and similarly quickly regained composure afterwards. It’s still a budget setup though, well tuned but still budget. So around corners, quite a bit of body roll does creep in. Not unsettling, but you and your passengers will feel it.So while this is a budget car, aimed at the first-time buyer, there are some niggling misses that we noticed. There was no day/night IRVM, no rear washer and wiper, no powered rear windows and no vanity mirror either.A reversing camera would have been better for beginner driveRs  Alloy wheels in the top spec variant would have been nice and the lack of practical storage spaces in the rear are something that family members would miss. None of these issues are real deal-breakers but these are things we think would have made the package more complete.Safety equipment on offer includes dual airbags, ABS, EBD, rear parking sensors, pretensioner seat belts, speed sensing auto door locks and high speed alerts. All the essentials, as mandated, no extras.Like we said, the Alto K10 keeps things simple and being aimed at beginners, it really didn't have to do too much. But, it's also not one-dimensional either. It can now actually hold four adults in relative comfort. It's light and nimble and though it doesn't pack too much of a punch in terms of performance, it's still an exciting driving experience too.Yes, it's not a perfect picture, both in terms of practicality or comfort, there are some features that we will miss. And that engine could be a little more refined as well. But as a simple car, one that’s aimed at the first-time car owner, it still makes a great entry point into life on four wheels.When it comes to the boot, like on the front doors, you also get a passive keyless entry button to unlock the boot, and the space itself, at 313 litres, is quite big. On the downside, the boot lip is quite high which makes loading and removing big items a shoulder-straining affair. Moreover, the exposed metal on the boot lip will quite easily scratch any hard-edged luggage sliding along it. For added practicality, you get a 60:40 split-folding rear seat.In the top-of-the-line ZXi Plus variant, the Celerio gets a seven-inch touchscreen infotainment system. At first glance, the system doesn’t stand out in terms of size or resolution,, but thanks to the big icons and the snappy touch response, it is quite easy to use. You also get Apple CarPlay and Android Auto as standard. The four-speaker sound system can’t match the sound quality of the Tata Tiago’s 6-speaker Harman-sourced system, but on its own, it is quite decent with good clarity. Other features in the ZXi Plus variant include push-button start, electrically adjustable and folding ORVMs and steering-mounted controls.The Celerio is powered by a 1-litre three-cylinder petrol engine which is similar to the old carWe also got to sample the AMT gearbox and in the Celerio there is a bit of history here. In 2014, the Celerio was the first car in India to get the automated manual transmission, and seven years later you realise how far this gearbox tech has come. It is getting closer and closer to feeling like a normal automatic, in fact, while driving in the city it feels smooth with minimal gear shift shocks and even when you want to execute a quick overtake it downshifts quite well. Sure, it still feels a bit slow, especially when you're driving fast, but it isn't as big a deal-breaker as it used to be.If I had to change one thing about the Celerio, it would be the price. If it was priced slightly lower, it would have become a stylish alternative to the Wagon R. But as things stand, you’ll have to dish out a slight premium to get one.There is a difference between the petrol and the CNG power outputs so with petrol the engine makes 86PS and with CNG it reduces to 73PS, a difference of 13PS. And there is a drop of 18Nm of torque too. But in the city the difference really is negligible.We did manage to complete a city efficiency test on the iCNG and it returned an average of 15.56km/kg. This is lower when compared to Tata’s claimed 26.49 km/kg ARAI mileage but do keep in mind that CNG tanks are not an exact science and how they fill up depends on pressure and temperature and fill ups can vary quite a bit. This will affect the accuracy of tests as well as the consistency of your tank range.There are some differences though, so while it takes a similar amount of time to fill up the 60 litre/10kg CNG tank at a pump as it takes to fill up 35 litres of petrol, CNG lines can be a problem at times. So time of the day, temperature and pressure at the pump can all make a difference to how long you have to wait.With our  calculations a full CNG tank should last about 3-4 days considering out tested 15.56km/kg and an estimated 8-10kgs of CNG per tank up. So heavy users - the typical cng buyer, will need more visits to the CNG filling station than he would like. For long trips though the distance you can travel gets a decent boost with the 150km additional CNG tank range. A very healthy 700 plus kilometer of reach on a single fill up.Maruti Suzuki Alto Introduction.Finally, the Alto customers get to see some major revolution in the design, performance and in the interior of the car. This change has, for sure, bought a lot more buyers for the new Maruti Suzuki Alto, Let us see what changes the engineers, have bought, in this detailed review.The previous Alto K10 had the old Alto shape, which has been completely phased out.Maruti Suzuki Alto Exterior,the exterior of the Alto K10 now looks sufficiently different than the Alto 800 from both, the rear and the front even though it is the same under its skin. The headlamps have grown bigger and bolder with a distinguishing front grille with a thick chrome slate and the 'S' shape symbol of Suzuki in-between. The lower air dams are black and do look smarter than its previous design.The side profile also looks a bit different with a black-fibre strip right in the center and what we could see was the rear window had reduced in dimensions. The door panels also get blackened and this black touch all over the car makes the exterior look a bit sporty. The rear also gets bigger tail lamps, which are somewhat different than the Alto 800. The number plate slot has moved down to the bumper while it appears that the rear hatch door as well as the tail lamps have been flattened a bit to give it a look of a big sized car.Maruti Suzuki Alto Interior.the interior of the Alto K10 is totally fresh when compared to its 800cc sibling. The console and the dash has a black and beige tone with the instrument cluster having features like the USB option and aux input and a mp3 player. The buttons are big and clear and hence easy and convenient to use. This new centre console is a welcome after the old Alto 800 styling, which does look outdated. The Alto gets new rich beige fabric seats to add a pinch of richness in the cabin. The cabin space is sufficient and feels airy. The front row seats are comfortable for even long drives. In the second row there is sufficient kneeroom even for tall people and there is enough head room as well, but the thigh support could have been better.Maruti Suzuki Alto Engine and Performance,the Alto K10 gets a 1.0-litre engine which is mated with a five-speed manual gear box and producing 67bhp and 90Nm of power. This three-cylinder engine has be good power but most of its is delivered at high rpm. One needs to revv the engine to extract the best performance from it. For those quick overtaking moves, one has to downshift. Driving in city is easy and one doesn't have to shift a lot of gears in traffic. The engine has a good punch and it doesn't feel running out of juice even on highways. The engine's NVH levels are also low. This engine also powers the Wagon R and the Celerio, but as this body is lighter, the performance is much better.Maruti Suzuki also offers a five-speed AMT transmission just like the Celerio. The performance of this engine is blunted with the AMT, but what you get is a relaxed drive. A step forward taken by Maruti Suzuki is that it also offers same engine with a CNG option, which is a smart move by the Maruti, as the cost of running comes down, however there is no boot left. If you ask me, CNG is used for city driving and so is AMT, but both aren't offered together.The car gives a very smooth and a happy experience to the driver. The 1.0-litre engine is very smooth, linear yet active. Maruti Suzuki Alto Driving Experience.We drove the petrol variant of the car, both on the highway and in the city traffic. The city driving was effortless as the car could move smoothly without any gearshifts even at low speeds whereas on highways it felt very active as well as linear. Overtaking was found to be simple as power supplied was sufficient. There was enough power supplied post 2000rpm, which pulled on till the red line. The ride quality is good in city and in fact the suspension does a good job too. The car felt very pliant at high speeds. It was clearly evident that the car could be under your control at any point of the time. Even the steering response is good, even though it is light and easy to drive.The Alto K10 is being offered with six different options from the base LX, LXi, VXi, VXi-AMT and the CNG option. The price of the Alto K10 starts at INR 400000 to INR 450000 (on-road price). The competitors for the Alto K10 are the Hyundai Eon 1.0 and the Datsun GO. But what advantage Alto has is the Maruti Suzuki after sales service and resale value that no other car can give in this segment.