Renault KWID Expert Review.
Hopes of saving some money by using the Renault Kwid Climber, at least for daily commutes, have diminished quite a lot.  With an average combined efficiency of only 15.09kmpl, the Kwid has turned out to be no better than the S-Cross 1.6 it was supposed to replace as a daily vehicle. Could a checkup and service make things better? We will only know the next time. The Kwid has been soldiering on without complaints otherwise, even doubling up as the support car during photo/video shoots when our trusty Lodgy was put out of action due to multiple punctures.While the Kwid may not have been impressive in terms of efficiency, it’s been quite good in every other aspect. From the ride quality, to space, to manoeuvrability and even off-road capability. The multimedia system is a bit slow and the two speakers are tinny but all is forgiven when the reverse camera is engaged and the bright clear image makes reversing easy - even at night!The engine works best at higher speeds, with peak torque coming in only at over 4000rpm, forcing you to wring the engine to achieve any sort of quick forward momentum. While the engine does not mind being driven at lower speeds in higher gears, progress can be painfully slow - this can be a good thing or a bad thing depending on what sort of a driver you are. In the highly competitive world of the local rush hour, this quality makes you rev the engine more than necessary and thus be less efficient.The Kwid changed hands recently. Keyur, our executive producer, called in a favour when our trusty camera car, the Renault Lodgy, experienced crippling punctures on two different tyres. With it being too risky to use the Lodgy with its space-saver spare tyre, the MPV was parked till it was given fresh new tyres. Meanwhile, the Kwid became the camera car and has racked up a lot of kilometres - about 3000km in just over two weeks!The feedback from the producer and photo/videographers who’ve used the Kwid has been mixed. Positives - the compact dimensions made it easier to shoot photos and videos in the city, while the naturally-aspirated peppy engine made it easy to keep up with much faster cars/bikes at legal speeds. Negatives - space to move around. The fact that the boot lip was too tall to put equipment in easily and how quickly the engine ran out of breath on the highway were some aspects that bothered us.The Kwid’s 180mm of ground clearance and light controls made it surprisingly capable off-road when shooting the Hero XPulse 200 vs Royal Enfield Himalayan comparison review. It tackled the slush and the deep tracks made by trucks en route a quarry without scraping its underbody. Quick steering changes helped catch the slides while the engine didn’t mind being thrashed.The advent of the monsoon has made me very cautious in the Kwid. No ABS and a single wiper mean emergency braking procedures and visibility on longer journeys cannot be taken for granted. While MY2019 Kwids have ABS as standard, the single front windshield wiper design has been retained. While it does manage to sweep most of the windshield, a big space on the right edge of the screen is left untouched. With dirt and water accumulating, this can lead to a rather large blind spot - in the forward direction! The wiper blade does not clear the engine cover, an overenthusiastic car cleaner could damage it.Renault Kwid Climber.In-city commuting is set to become a much easier affair for this author for the next three monthsThis couldn’t have come at a better time. My daily, a Maruti Suzuki S-Cross 1.6, had been becoming a chore to drive in the city - and expensive too. While the slightly larger motor and six-cogs help it return more than 18kmpl on the highway, mileage in the city drops to 13kmpl even if you don’t drive it with a heavy foot. The heavy clutch, turbo-lag and fuel-sapping slow-speed characteristic meant the 1.6 is best used for longer journeys.The Kwid Climber now takes on the role of the city car for me. A reasonably peppy 1.0-litre, 3-cylinder petrol motor and light controls - along with the promise of better city-mileage - should make this the perfect city runabout to have. The Renault Kwid Climber in our fleet has all the updates the hatchback was given back in August 2018. This includes a rearview camera with display on the 7-inch central touchscreen, foldable rear centre armrest, retractable 3-point seatbelts for the rear passengers and a 12V charging port for the rear cabin.By now, most of us may be quite familiar with the Kwid, it has been in the market for over three years. The Kwid Climber variant has been on sale for over two years and it has remained unchanged in terms of exterior design since then. The SUV-inspired boxy design still sets the Kwid apart in its segment, though it may not attract as many eyeballs as it did when it was first launched. The Climber has even more SUV-ish elements, including the black inserts around the fog lamps, faux skid plates front and rear, roof rails, orange inserts on the bumper, ORVM covers and roof rails along with alloy-wheels-like full-wheels covers which give it a distinct look.Only the keen-eyed will spot the new camera integrated neatly into the Renault logo on the boot lid of the Kwid Climber. That’s the only change on the outside.Inside, the design remains the same. Changes are practical and mostly targeted at making life easier for the rear passengers. The retractable seatbelts are easier to operate than the manually adjustable ones available earlier - which should encourage passengers to use them more often. The addition of the centre armrest is a masterstroke; in a car that is at best a 4½ seater, the armrest makes seating quite comfortable. The armrest does not get any cup holders and that is a big miss, especially considering the Kwid does not have too many storage spaces anyway.The new 12V outlet is placed beside the rear parcel tray, adding to the convenience factor for the rear passengers. The most important convenience and safety-enhancing feature added to the Kwid is the display of the rearview camera on the 7-inch centre display. The video feed is reasonably clear even at night, definitely making parking the car safer. On a short drive, the steering felt very light, darting in and out of traffic is also helped by the compact dimensions. The gearshift is fairly smooth, which is great considering the engine is not that peppy. A peaky power delivery means you keep shifting gears to keep up a good pace. At speeds up to 30kmph, the engine is not smooth - often inducing jerks as you go on or off throttle. Could this be improved with a visit to the service centre? We will find out. I am thinking of adding a day/night IRVM to the Kwid, either from the accessories list from Renault or from the aftermarket. Night time driving would become much easier with this addition.  Over the next three months, the Kwid will be used extensively every day - the goal is to find if it is the perfect city runabout. If you have any queries or advice, please do leave your comments below.Cheers: Compact exterior dimensions, touchscreen infotainment system, standard safety tech sneers: Jerky engine, no day-night IRVM.Renault Kwid Review.With its SUV-inspired looks, touchscreen infotainment system and digital dials, the game-changing Renault Kwid successfully established that a budget hatchback need not be a basic hatchback. Renault has also done well to update the Kwid regularly but what you see here is the most comprehensive refresh yet. The Kwid’s got a new look, a refreshed cabin and more features.As before, the Kwid is available with a 54hp, 0.8-litre petrol engine, and a 68hp, 1.0-litre petrol engine that can also be had with an AMT automatic. Do note, the engines are still in BS4-spec. BS6-compliant versions will come closer to April 2020 when the new emission norms take effect. Our test car is a Kwid 1.0-manual in top-spec Climber form.Renault Kwid Exterior.The Kwid was a smart hatchback to start with and 2019’s changes have made it more attractive still. Styling up front is all new and the new-age split headlamp setup, with LED DRLs on top and the main headlight lower down, conforms to latest trends. The DRLs look striking and what’s particularly noteworthy, is that they are standard across all variants. The large main headlights on the bumper get chunky black bezels that are embellished with orange accents on the Climber.With the update, Renault has upsized the Kwid’s wheels from 13-inchers to 14-inchers across the line-up. The larger rims and chunkier 165/70 R14 tyres give the little Renault a more confident stance. As an added plus, ground clearance is also up 4mm to 184mm. Attractive smoked grey plastic wheel covers are part of the package on the Kwid Climber, while regular versions make use of simpler covers. LED guide lights in the tail-lamps and the inclusion of reflectors, meanwhile, have helped spruce up the Kwid’s rear.A brochure-to-brochure comparison of the old and new Kwid will also tell you that the 2019 model is 52mm longer and 35-40kg heavier than the original. The increase in length is courtesy the new bumpers while the weight increment is down to the additional structural reinforcements at the front and sides required to comply with the latest crash and pedestrian safety norms.Renault Kwid Interior.Those familiar with the Kwid will be quick to notice the changes inside the cabin. Things like the new steering wheel that’s wrapped in perforated leather, the new instrument cluster and larger touchscreen sure help make the right first impression. The digital instrument cluster that also includes a tachometer is a huge step up from the previous one. The display is crisp and clear and the absence of a glass before the instrument cluster means there are no reflections at all. What’s also impressive is the new 8.0-inch touchscreen infotainment system. It is slick to use and it features Android Auto and Apple CarPlay.The dashboard gets some design changes as well and a few controls have been shuffled and rearranged to make it more ergonomic. The storage recess atop the glovebox has been done away with while the glovebox itself has been made a size or two larger. New to the Kwid is the option of a passenger side airbag (it's only available with the 1.0-litre engine). The airbag housing takes the place of the secondary glovebox that was notorious for its flimsy lid. Also, in the AMT variant, the gear selector knob is no more on the dashboard, but has been moved to the console between the seats. All said, while the new design and layout looks a lot more upmarket than before, the quality of materials hasn’t improved. There are still plenty of places where cheap plastics have been used and an improvement here would have helped uplift the ambience to another plane.The front seats have been carried forward unchanged so you are seated at a good height that provides a good view of the road. Although the cushioning is slightly on the firmer side, there’s good side and under-thigh support. Get in the back seat, and you are sat low, which results in a knees-up seating position. The seat base isn’t very long and you don’t have a lot of under-thigh support here either. There is reasonable headroom and legroom for average-sized adults but space is significantly down on the taller Maruti S-Presso. The Kwid Climber does remain the only car in its class to offer the comfort of a rear centre armrest.Interestingly, boot space has gone down from 300 litres to 279 litres. The switch to larger 14-inch wheels and the requirement for bigger wheel wells has resulted in slightly less room for luggage. The rear seat backrest can be folded to make more room though.Renault Kwid Feature.All versions of the Kwid get ABS, a driver airbag, reverse parking sensors, speed warning system and seatbelt reminders, as mandated by latest requirements. As mentioned, a passenger side airbag is a paid option.You’ll be quite surprised by how many comfort and convenience features top-spec Kwids pack in. The Kwid Climber gets modern day essentials like front power windows (rear power windows are an option), remote central locking and power steering. Over and above this LED DRLs, an 8.0-inch touchscreen and digital dials are also part of the package.Renault Kwid Driving Experince.If you are buying a Kwid, it’s worth your money to spend extra for the larger-hearted Kwid 1.0. The 68hp, 1.0-litre, three-cylinder petrol engine is leagues better than the humdrum 54hp, 0.8-litre unit. That said, the Kwid’s 1.0 engine isn’t perfect. The engine is always audible inside the cabin at idle and gets quite loud at high revs too. Get a move on, and you will notice that the power delivery isn’t very instantaneous. At low speeds, the buildup of speed is quite slow and it lacks the strong bottom-end of the Alto K10. So, while getting around in the city, you will have to downshift to make those quick overtakes or to close in on a gap. Things are slightly better in the mid-range: this is where you can feel the progress in speed. The power dies down after 4,000rpm and it is better if you upshift at this point as the engine gets quite loud after this point. The 5-speed manual gearbox has medium length throws and, coupled with a light clutch, moving through gears isn’t very cumbersome.Has the 4mm increase in ride height and the shift to wider 165/70 R14 tyres made a difference to the driving experience? Not a major difference, but yes, it has. The Kwid has lost some of its pliancy at low speeds, and there is a bit more movement over bad roads. The suspension handles potholes well, but isn’t very silent and you can hear it working over a bad patch of road. As before, though, the Kwid feels quite planted and surefooted at high speeds for what is a bantam-weight car. Stability is decent and the wider tyres also give more confidence in the corners. A sore point is the steering – while light and easy to use at low city speeds, it lacks self-centering and does not weigh-up sufficiently at high speeds either.A point worth noting is that as a result of bigger and wider tyres, and added weight, the claimed fuel efficiency figures have dropped significantly across all the engine and gearbox options. The 0.8L has a claimed fuel efficiency of 22.30kpl, 2.87kpl less while the 1.0-litre engine has a claimed fuel efficiency of 21.70kpl (MT) and 22.50kpl (AMT), which is a drop of 1.34kpl and 1.54kpl, respectively.Renault Kwid Verdict.The Renault Kwid facelift has been launched at a price of INR 283000 to INR 492000 ex-showroom, Delhi which makes it a great value buy. Do note, prices will increase once the BS6 versions come in the near future.In all, the enhanced look and equipment have made the Renault Kwid more appealing than ever before. Question is, is it still the best budget hatchback to buy? To know the answer, read how the updated Kwid fares against the new Maruti Suzuki S-Presso.Renault Kwid Review.The updated Renault Kwid has just become the smallest member of our long-term fleet. After a break from long-term cars for a few months, I got the keys to a brand-new Renault Kwid Climber, which has replaced our Maruti Suzuki S-Presso; incidentally, its main market rival. The Kwid is not entirely new to me, especially after using the pre-facelift 0.8 as well as 1.0-litre versions extensively in the last few years. This one is the heavily updated Kwid and, in Climber guise, it gets some unique cosmetic elements. This mid-life update went on sale in India before the rest of world, and I have to give it up for Renault’s designers for making a budget hatchback look so convincingly SUV-like. The Climber variant comes with 14-inch wheels, which add a lot to its looks. The double-layer headlamp design, with its LED DRLs above and headlamps below looks upmarket, and further setting the Climber apart are its eye-catching orange exterior accents, dark grey wheel covers and unique interior upholstery.Since we are now back to a work-from-home regime, the Kwid makes fewer trips to the office, but I have managed to put around 2,000km on it, since late February. Spend enough time driving any vehicle, and you’re sure to get a good, solid perspective of its performance, dynamics and capabilities. The Kwid is my de facto ride to various COVID-19 centres I visit as part of a volunteer water distribution project I am part of. It’s also my companion for my aviation photography sessions, where its small footprint is quite helpful for the tight parking spots we ‘spotters’ often find ourselves in.Having driven this car over a thousand kilometres, I’ve noticed the new Kwid feels a bit slower and less energetic than the earlier Kwid 1.0, which I thoroughly enjoyed during my 12km office commutes a few years ago. While the engine does sound a bit more refined, it now feels milder. This is likely due to the added weight from upgrades made to let it meet the newer crash test norms.Once you get going, the performance feels adequate for a regular city commute, and it also has just enough pep to keep up with highway traffic. What I did like about the updated Kwid’s engine is that the bottom end is slightly better and, along with a light clutch, helps reduce stress and effort while driving in heavy traffic.The Kwid has also received a major change on the inside with this facelift. The dashboard is all new and so is the steering wheel. I did find the seats a bit better contoured, but the big talking point is the 8.0-inch touchscreen that is the biggest in the class. While the audio quality from the two speakers in the dashboard remains nothing to write home about, the updated touchscreen system sort of makes up for it. Also a good addition is the rear-view camera, which offers a surprisingly clear view of obstacles, unlike other budget cars that have a patchy, low-res feed. Apart from the added structural reinforcement, the Kwid now gets dual front airbags and ABS as standard, thanks to the recent government norms, giving me a little more peace of mind.As far as fuel economy goes, I am getting around 13.5kpl in the city, but the Kwid Climber 1.0 is still quite new and the odo is still just above 2,000km, so it should improve. More on that in my next long-term report, where I’ll also look into the rear seat and what has changed there.Renault Kwid Review.It’s a hard task to succeed in the entry level hatchback segment. There is absolutely no guarantee to make it big even if you have a better car in all ways possible than a Maruti Suzuki because this segment works on network, service and cheap maintenance. The car needs to be light, efficient and easy to drive for the first time car buyer too and Maruti has done a damn good job at it with the Alto. So the Renault Kwid has to deliver on other fronts, and find its own niche to stay clear of the Alto buyer but take on Hyundai’s Eon. It has to offer enough and more over its well established rivals to be taken seriously in this cut throat entry level hatchback segment. Can the Renault Kwid be that good?Renault Kwid Design and styling: rating_3.5_rating.Clearly at first glance, the Kwid looks like a hatchback that does not want to appeal to the no nonsense Alto car buyer. This segment works on a matter of a few tens of thousands rupees, so for those who can stretch budgets a bit, it has always been the Hyundai Eon to go to. You get the extra bit of feel-good factor with the quality of materials, features and an overall accomplished design that you don’t get with an Alto. The Kwid wants a slice of that segment.And Renault says so in not as many words but in the design of the Kwid. It looks much like a compact SUV with a chunky grille and flared wheel arches. The headlamps and taillamps are simple yet neatly designed and the sculpted bonnet and front bumper give an impression that the Kwid is a more premium offering than cars of its class. Unique bits like the turn indicators on the front wheel arches and the variant badge on the C-pillar stand out right away.It is a budget hatchback after all and costs saving bits are hard to miss. The wheels have just three lug nuts, much like the ones seen on the Nano, the door handles are not body coloured, the ORVMs are simple plastic clad units that have to be adjusted manually and you get vinyls for the side strips and not actual cross hatchback like body cladding. You also get one big wiper up front instead of two, which sure will leave a large patch of dirt on the windscreen in the rains. I admire the package overall though. It has a certain degree of desirability that cars like the Datsun Go can’t quite offer.Renault Kwid Interior and space: rating_3.5_rating.One step into the Kwid and you already know you are getting into a fairly spacious hatchback by segment standards. The chunky steering wheel is neatly shaped and the Kwid comes with a digital instrument cluster, which is a first for its class. It comes with a elaborate trip computer and fuel economy reading which should help budget car buyers alter their driving style to eke out more efficiency.The quality of plastics for a car of its price is quite good except for places like the door handles and aircon controls but overall the Kwid doesn’t look like it’s built cheap. There are plenty of storage spaces in the Kwid – two glove boxes, the top one with a bottle holder, two bottle holders in the front door pockets and plenty of scooped up places in the dashboard and in front of the gear lever.The seats are of the foamy, cushiony kind, and well contoured for the front passengers. The headrest is integrated and there’s decent under thigh support. It’s a spacious entry level hatchback, and in terms of boot space, it’s better than a few cars above the segment as well. At 300 litres, you can carry a big suitcase and an overnighter comfortably.The Kwid has the longest wheelbase in its class at 2423mm, about 60mm more than the Alto and 40mm more than the Eon. It is also much wider than its closest competition and so you get more legroom and shoulder room. The Kwid’s packaging is seriously impressive.Renault Kwid Features and equipment: rating_3.5_rating.The Kwid comes with front power windows, central locking and air conditioning. In addition, the top end Kwid gets the Touchscreen system offered in the Duster and Lodgy. It is a big feature for a car of this class and the few buyers who want to splurge a bit for their budget hatchback, will love this Touchscreen system. It comes with Bluetooth telephony and navigation in addition to the usual radio, and USB connectivity. The maps aren’t as accurate as google maps, but other navigation systems too suffer from google levels of quality. The audio system comes with two speakers up front, and for the two lower variants below the top end RXT variant you see in these pictures, there’s a single DIN stereo with radio and MP3.To keep entry level prices down, the base variant is bare bones basic while the RXE variant that sits above the base version gets the music system as an optional feature. What we don’t like is that the Kwid comes with one airbag that is also on the options list, even on the top end variant.Renault Kwid Engines and performance: rating_3.0_rating.About 80 percent of the development of the Kwid comes from the Indian R&D team’s contribution and herein comes the high levels of research into weight savings and efficiency. The Kwid sure is a global product but India is its most important market, which is why it goes on sale here first. Renault says that pricing was so important that there was no alternative to localizing the entire car, and the French carmaker has come close. 98 percent of the Kwid’s parts are sourced in India.It’s a smooth engine with a sprightly low and mid end but suffers from lack of power high up the rev band. You can short shift and stay in a higher gear without losing much speed. It’s not going to be a blast down the highway but the Kwid is quick on its feet nonetheless. The 5-speed manual gearbox is easy to use and the ratios are spaced well for city use. You don’t feel the vibrations in the gear lever that’s an annoying feature in the Alto. The pedals however could do with a bit more play, both the clutch and the brake.NVH levels overall are under check, even with the aircon on full blast. The Kwid feels well put together for the most part.Renault Kwid Ride and ease of driving: rating_4.0_rating.A lesson Renault has learnt with the Duster is that a rugged high ground clearance car will find its takers here and with the Kwid, the carmaker delivers just that. Riding high at 180mm, the Kwid has the highest ground clearance in its class. And considering it’s a short wheelbase, this will be more than enough to go over just about every large speed breaker the country has in store for it. The high ground clearance also gives excellent visibility out of the driver’s seat making it a very easy car to drive around town. What impressed us right away is the ride quality of this tiny hatchback. The Kwid uses MacPherson struts up front and twist beam suspension at the rear and the setup is tuned to perfection for our roads. Large undulations are evened out impressively and broken roads don’t throw you about inside the car like most hatchbacks in this segment do.Renault Kwid Handling and braking: rating_3.5_rating.The nice chunky steering and the driving position are spot on. You sit at a good height and there is no offset pedal nonsense or steering on your chest sort of feeling that budget cars tend to have. The Kwid has considerable roll but not of the scary kind. You know you can keep it together when you are hustling this Renault baby, and in fact it is good fun to chuck around corners, much like the Alto.Just 660kg of mass to stop does ease pressure off the tiny disc brakes up front and the drums in the rear. The brakes could do with a bit more play though and the 155 section tyres with a bit more bite. When weight is on your side however, you can get away with a little less grip. Renault should however have an ABS equipped variant in the lineup too, which is not on offer as of now.Renault Kwid Fuel Economy and price: rating_4.5_rating.The Kwid’s major claim to fame is going to the surprisingly high levels of mileage delivered by the three-pot motor. Renault has received an ARAI certified efficiency figure of 25.17kmpl, which makes it the most efficient petrol car in the country. But it being just a 800cc motor that is bound to be revved high most of the time to keep it in the powerband, don’t expect it to be as efficient as the official figures state.The Kwid will be launched next month and bookings commence from September 14. Expected prices will be in the range of the INR 300000 -450000 mark which makes for a highly competitive car.Renault Kwid Verdict: rating_3.5_rating.There is no denying the fact that Renault has done its homework well. The Kwid enters a cut throat segment that spares no mercy for any new entrant. And so Renault is giving it all… A good refined engine, high mileage, lots of features, more space than top competitors for both passengers and boot, easy to drive character and a design that makes it more desirable than utilitarian. And it’s not just the car but the work around it too that should play a factor in its success. Renault claims the lowest ownership cost in its segment, easy availability of parts and a growing network of sales and service outlets to appeal to car buyers from smaller towns and rural regions of the country. If you have a Renault dealer in your city, hold on to your Maruti or Hyundai cheque because the Kwid deserves your attention before you sign that dotted line.