Tata Tiago Expert Review :
Tata’s given the Tiago a model year update, and with it the much awaited CNG option. We find out how affordable it is as compared to petrol and what are its limitations Back in January 2020, Tata launched the facelifted Tiago. Fast forward two years and the compact hatchback has just got a model year update. With this, the Tiago has received multiple cosmetic changes and probably the biggest update in the form of a factory-fitted CNG kit. Although Tata’s late to offer a CNG in this segment, there are a few strong reasons for which you may consider it. And because this review will be focused on the CNG side of the Tiago, let’s start there.Tata Tiago Engine and Performance .The Tiago still comes with the same 1.2-litre, 3-cylinder petrol engine with a 5-speed manual and an optional 5-speed AMT. In the CNG variants, however, you only get the manual transmission. The good thing is that the 86PS/113Nm tune of the petrol is carried over to the CNG’s petrol mode as well, while the reduced output 73PS and 95Nm only applies to the CNG. Also, Tata has added the functionality to let the car start in CNG mode rather than petrol, which is a segment first.Despite the lower tune, what Tata has managed well is the engine feel between the two fuel modes. In motion, the CNG powertrain feels as refined as the petrol, with only a minor difference creeping in at higher revs. Until and unless you are a keen observer, driving on petrol and CNG power will feel nearly identical. That said, the Tiago’s engine was never the most refined in the segment and we would have appreciated a bit more of fine-tuning to make it smoother running and reduce the engine noise creeping into the cabin. If the majority of your usage is going to be within the city limits and in CNG mode, the Tiago CNG will perform its duties without breaking a sweat. Getting off the line and making progress is effortless thanks to the ample low-down torque. Even when it comes to going for gaps and making overtakes, the Tiago manages to get a move on if you are in the right gear. The strong midrange of the engine lets you cruise in 2nd and 3rd gear in the city without having to shift much. A quick overtake will require a downshift and that too, with its easy shifting action and a light clutch, happens effortlessly.The power delivery in CNG takes place in a very linear fashion which is more than suitable for daily commutes. But yes, it will leave you wanting for a bit more punch. Even in the petrol mode, the experience remains similar with linear acceleration. In our performance test, there was just a 1 second difference in the 30-80kmph acceleration in 3rd gear. An impressive feat for a CNG. Where the CNG mode falls short is acceleration at higher rpms. That is where the petrol mode holds a distinct advantage and during highway overtakes. It's better to switch to the petrol while you are trying to pull at higher rpms as there is a clear change in acceleration. That is why in outright acceleration to 100kmph, the difference between the two fuel modes is nearly 2 seconds. This is the only time however that you would need to switch to petrol. And that is when the mode switch button on the dashboard really comes handy. Every other time, the CNG mode feels as good as the petrol and you won't even notice that the car is running on CNG.Tata Tiago Running Costs, Mileage, And Range.As per our in-house test, the Tiago CNG returned a mileage of 15.56km/kg in the city. We drove the CNG-powered hatchback in Pune where the rate of the cleaner fuel is Rs 66/kg. Based on these figures, the running cost comes to Rs 4.2/km. The same test on the petrol-powered Tiago returned a fuel efficiency of 15.12kmpl. Price of petrol in Pune is Rs 109/litre and the running cost comes to Rs 7.2/km. This means when you use the Tiago CNG, you are saving Rs 3/km.Tata has priced the CNG variants at a premium of Rs 90,000 over their petrol counterparts. So, your first 30,000km in the Tiago CNG will be spent in recovering the additional cost, after which you shall start reaping the benefits of the Rs 3/km difference. However, there is one issue. The Tiago CNG’s water-equivalent capacity is 60 litres and it has a holding capacity of 10.8kg. With a mileage of 15.56km/kg in the city, it should offer a range of around 160km. So if you drive 50km daily, you will have to refuel the CNG tank every third day! And it will cost you around Rs 700/refill. In comparison, the petrol-powered Tiago has a 35 litre tank, resulting in a range of 530km. One of the biggest advantages of the hatchback is that even if it runs out of CNG, it will continue to carry on with just petrol power. But given the shortage of CNG fuelling stations in India, you may have to wait in a queue to fill it up, depending on your location.Tata Tiago Boot Space.As you can probably guess, one thing that’s taken a huge blow with the introduction of the CNG kit is the boot space of the hatchback. The non-CNG variants have a storage capacity of 242 litres, but those with the cleaner fuel option literally have space only to keep your laptop bags. Also, keeping the bags won't be possible from the boot but rather by folding down the rear seats and then accessing the storage area under the CNG tank. That is also how you access the spare wheel which is quite a task. Good thing then that Tata is giving a puncture repair kit with the car as well. If you consider Maruti’s CNG models, their boots offer more storage capacity. It is because the carmaker has smartly placed the spare wheel vertically and the CNG tank is located further below and inside the boot. This allows owners to place their soft or duffle bags in the available area. Tata should have come up with a similar solution as well.Tata Tiago Ride and Handling The Tiago, like all Tatas, has a comfortable ride quality. It absorbs potholes and rough surfaces well and keeps the cabin away from the harshness of the surface. Inside the city, the broken roads and speed breakers are dealt with ease. To accommodate the 100 extra kilos in the boot, the rear has been stiffened a bit and it can be felt on the sharper potholes, but the ride mostly remains stable and comfortable.As for handling, the Tiago remains as neutral as before. It feels safe when pushed into corners and body roll is kept under check as well. However, with the added weight in the boot, it's better off commuting in the city rather than picking lines through a corner.Tata Tiago Looks.Back in 2020 when the facelifted Tiago was launched, it got a host of cosmetic upgrades including the Altroz-like sharper front profile and Tata’s tri-arrow detailing both inside and out. This time around Tata decided to add some more chrome on it which is done subtly, and add a bit of class to the hatchback. The 2022 Tiago also comes with projector headlights and LED DRLs, the latter placed near the fog lamps. There is also a new Midnight Plum shade on the compact hatchback which helps fill the void of a Dark Edition Tiago.In profile, the only two new changes you will spot are the chrome garnish on the door handles and new 14-inch stylised wheel covers which make the steel wheels look like they are dual-tone alloys. While the Tiago does get alloy wheels in this variant, the CNG variants don't. The Tiago’s rear profile also gets a few differences now including a chrome strip and the ‘iCNG’ badge on the boot lid. Overall, it is still the better hatchback of the segment.Tata Tiago Interior.Right from its inception, the Tiago has always been a well-loaded compact hatchback in India. Until now, the Tiago was only offered with a black and grey dashboard layout. However, with the recent update, Tata has tried to freshen things up a bit as the top-spec XZ+ trim now gets a dual-tone black and beige cabin setup. A new seat upholstery sums up the changes on the inside.The build quality and fit-finish of the interior is impressive as well. The seats are also well padded and have proper contouring to hold you in comfort for longer journeys. Also, while the driver gets a height adjustable seat, the passenger’s seat feels a bit tall and is not adjustable for height. Taller passengers will feel like sitting over the car and not in it.At the rear, the bench too feels well cushioned and contoured. While it is suitable for two people, seating three would not be a big problem for city stints. However, the rear headrests are non-adjustable, which hampers adequate neck support. If Tata would have added an armrest or a mobile charging port here, the experience could have been a lot better.If cabin practicality is considered, the Tiago gets two cup holders near the handbrake, a cooled glovebox, a space to store your phone and a cubby hole on the driver’s side of the dashboard. It also has map pockets and bottle holders on all four doors. However, the map pockets are slim and aren’t suitable for anything other than paper and cloth.Tata Tiago Features and Technology.The Tiago comes with a decent feature list including a 7-inch touchscreen system which works well, Android and Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity, and is paired with an 8 speaker (4 speakers, 4 tweeters) setup which sounds very good. If you are someone who prefers using voice commands, Tata has taken care of that as well in the Tiago. The touchscreen unit also doubles up as the display for the reversing camera and even gets dynamic guidelines. You also get steering-mounted audio and calling controls, auto climate control, digital driver’s display and electrically adjustable ORVMs. Tata Tiago Safety.The Tiago’s standard safety features include a tyre puncture repair kit, dual front airbags, ABS with EBD, corner stability control, and rear parking sensors. And because this is a CNG variant, you also get a fire extinguisher near the passenger seat. Another big advantage for the Tiago is that it is the only compact hatchback to have a 4-star rating in the Global NCAP crash tests.Tata Tiago Verdict.Is the Tiago CNG the right car for you? Well, that depends. If you often load the hatchback with items in the boot, then the Tiago CNG definitely doesn’t have much to offer. There are two more issues which don’t work in its favour. Firstly, the long waiting lines at CNG fuelling stations and second, the Rs 90,000 premium over the corresponding petrol variants which push this Tiago into the territory of larger hatchbacks. Aftermarket CNG kits usually cost upto Rs 50,000 but here you are paying a premium for the neat integration of the additional items.When it comes to the affordability of the CNG, you will be spending Rs 3/km less as compared to petrol. And this cost could take around two and half years to recover, depending on your usage. On the upside though, the Tiago CNG doesn’t let you feel that you are in a CNG-powered hatchback. The driving dynamics, ride comfort, and features list is similar to that of its petrol counterpart and quite commendable. If that is what you are looking for, a low compromise drive experience with a CNG powertrain, then the Tiago CNG can surely be a strong contender.Tata Tiago Pros.Improved petrol engine in BS6 avatar,Compact dimension is perfect for city usage.Four Star NCAP safety rating.Tata Tiago Cons.Vibey on idle,Notchy gearbox,Quality of materials could have been betterTata Tiago Verdict.With the BS6 update, the Tata Tiago has capitalised on what it did best and improved on its shortcomings. So it remains a cheery little city-runabout that is even handsome to look at now with the Altroz-inspired face. Even the cabin has received a much-needed redo with bits borrowed from bigger, more expensive Tata models. Add to it the four-star NCAP rating and the Tiago comes as one of the most affordable yet safe car to live with.Tata Tiago Engine and Performance.On the move, the Tiago remains silent and an easy car to drive around. You need little throttle inputs to gain moment as the motor is hovering around 1500-1750rpm mark at city speeds. It doesn’t feel as peppy as the 1.2-litre in the new Wagon R, but it has a good supply of power right from the word go. Also since it is a relatively lighter car – tipping the scale at around 980 kilograms (kerb) – it never feels running out of breath be it your bumper-to-bumper traffic or some quick excursion in and around highways.You can potter around in the city with a gear or two higher than expected and it won’t urge you to downshift. And for urgent pushes to get through tiny space in the traffic all it needs is a slight dab on the throttle to access the 113Nm of max torque which peaks at 3,300rpm. When you hit the highways, there’s enough grunt in the motor to keep up with triple-digit speeds. You would get to hear the motor slightly more at this point. But it won’t leave you wanting for more if you drop a gear and accelerate quickly to overtake those slow-moving stream of highway traffic.Updated early last year, the BS6 Tiago is powered by the same three-cylinder 1.2-litre Revotron petrol engine which puts out 85bhp at 6000rpm. It is paired to a five-speed manual as standard, but can also be had with an AMT automatic. We are driving the former three-pedal setup in this review. Crank it up and the three-pot motor settles into a silent idle but there are noticeable vibrations felt on the inside. Be it gear lever, foot pedals or even steering wheel, you can sense mild throbbing pulses all over the place – which aren’t a deal breaker in our opinion. Because, the vibration disappears the moment you get on the clutch, slot-in the gear, and get going.Tata Tiago Ride and Handling. Meanwhile, Tata hasn’t tweaked the hardware of the Tiago much with this update. So it continues to ride pretty well. All the bumps and irregularities are taken care of with great composure and only the sharpest of the potholes make themselves felt inside the cabin. There’s enough ground clearance to take on the really bad patches of roads without scrapping the underbelly. What’s more, the ride gets even better at highway speeds; and the high-speed stability is much better than we expected. Even the body rolls are well restrained although we didn’t get to take it on some twisties to check it demeanour over there.At slow speeds, the steering of the Tiago is extremely light and easy to manoeuvre. It is not exactly quick to respond, going almost three-turns lock-to-lock. But it is good for city driving as it won’t strain your arms trying to parallel-park. Moreover, there’s noticeable weight added to it as speed increases. But what works in the Tiago’s favour are its compact dimensions making it optimal to drive around congested cities like Mumbai.Tata Tiago Interior Space and Quality.That’s where the update ends. So in terms of cabin space and ergonomics, the Tiago remains as practical and usable as the older car. Getting in is easy and the visibility on offer is good too. There are no soft-touch materials used here except for the door armrest. But the quality of materials used over here could have been improved with this update. We still think the cup holders on the centre console should have been larger to accommodate 500ml bottles at the least. On the upside, there’s more than ample headroom for my dimensions (I am 5.5’) and enough shoulder room as well. The seats are supportive too with a good amount of bolster and under-thigh support.The same can be said about the rear seats as there’s a good amount of knee space but taller passengers might find their head touching the roof. And we wouldn’t recommend sitting three abreast here for longer jaunts. It also misses out on centre armrest, rear air vents or backseat pockets – which is a slight bummer. On the upside, there are non-adjustable headrest and one large bottle holder for the rear occupants. Lastly, the boot space of 242 litres isn’t something to write home about. And the rear seats don’t have split or flat fold either which further reduces its practicality.Let us take a look at all the changes on the inside, shall we? Firstly, there’s an all-digital instrument cluster which is shared with the Nexon. This new system replaces the dual analogue dials and – although monochromatic – looks better in real than it does in the pictures. It also has a good aesthetic appeal to go with its white illumination on the black unit. Then there’s the steering which is slightly tweaked and can be adjusted for height. Moving on to the centre console, a welcome addition here is the seven-inch touchscreen integrated with Tata’s ConnectNext interface. Again this is the same unit which is available in more expensive Tatas and has similar quality and usability too. Lower down the centre console is a gloss-finished insert with redesigned air-con controls. Also new is the gear lever – now matching the family design. Moreover, the upholstery has been given a change flaunting Tata’s tri-pointed design.Tata Tiago Features and Equipment.In terms of safety, the Tiago comes standard with dual-front airbags, ABS with EBD, corner stability control, speed alert, seatbelt reminder and speed-dependent door locks, follow-me-home lights, a rearview camera with parking sensor, rear wiper with a wash feature, and rear defogger, to name a few.What we have here with us is the top-spec XZ Plus variant which offers a decently decked-up feature list. This includes 15-inch dual-tone alloy wheels, auto AC, fabric seats, piano-black inserts on the dashboard, body-coloured inserts around air-vents, ConnectNext system with AppleCarPlay and Android Auto, eight-speakers Harman music system, voice command, keyless entry, electric ORVMs with an auto-fold, cooled glovebox and all-four power windows with one-touch-down for the driver.Tata Tiago Conclusion.With the update, the Tiago has grown into a handsome looking lad, one which much more interesting to look at than its rivals namely the Maruti Suzuki Wagon R and Hyundai Santro. It also drives well with a refinement added to its otherwise amicable powertrain. Updates on the inside make it an even better place to be. Sure, the interior space isn’t the shining point of the Tiago and the quality of materials won’t stand out either. But what makes the Tiago outstanding is its four-star GNCAP rating, and that’s a reason enough to buy it over anything else.
Tata Tiago Introduction.Although the Vista was intended to be the replacement for the ageing Indica, the fact that it was much more expensive meant Tata continued with the sales of the old car. Now finally we have the Tiago, which will replace Tata’s 17 year old product. As a result, the Tiago not only has to better the Indica, but it also has to feel three generations younger. For the past two years, Tata has been on an upward spiral with the launch of the Bolt hatchback and Zest compact sedan. Though the sales figures don’t confirm this, at least in terms of product quality, it has been a big step in the right direction.Tata Tiago Exterior.In terms of appearance, Tata seem to have just got it right and the Tiago looks very stylish with its sharp lines and well-proportioned body. The front looks bold with the signature Tata smiling mesh grille with hexagonal elements and the sweptback headlamps are large but not overtly so. The hexagonal theme continues to the mesh on the front bumper and you also get a horizontal bar and chrome surround for fog lamps, which complements the impressive look. If the front is striking, the rear looks even better – the wrap-around tail lamps and the crease running across the boot-lid lends it a lot of character. The profile is dominated by the mildly flared wheel arches and the prominent crease running across the shoulder which lends it a sporty stance.In terms of dimensions, the Tiago is 56mm longer, 50mm taller than the Indica. While the Tiago’s width is similar, its wheelbase of 2400mm is exactly the same as the Indica – as the Tiago is based on the same, albeit heavily modified platform. The Tiago petrol weighs at 1012kg and 1080kg for the diesel. This makes it quite a heavy weight especially when compared to the Celerio which weighs more than 150kg less.Tata Tiago Interior.Traditionally Tata cabins have always been more about space than perceived quality. But with the Tiago the Indian manufacturer has put in a lot of effort to address this issue and we have come away quite impressed. The interiors look really smart for a budget car with the smart dash-layout and neat instrumentation console. The hexagonal theme from the exterior continues inside with the centre console, speaker grille and the steering boss design. Quality, especially on the upper portions of the dashboard and the door pads, is nice with the fish skin-like graining. Lower down, the plastics do look a bit hard and panel gaps aren’t as consistent as the Celerio’s. But overall Tata has done a good job and overall quality and consistency is better than even the Bolt.Tata have also done a good job with the comfort up front and the seats are well contoured and you sit at a good height. Even at the rear you have enough space thanks to the scooped out front seats and thin door pads. But you do sit a bit low which affects under thigh and even headroom is not in abundance. The backrest too, is a bit too reclined and the seatback offers too much lower back support which can be a bit irritating. We would have also liked Tata to offer adjustable rear headrests to avoid whiplash injuries. In terms of practicality Tata has put in a lot of effort and have claimed to have 22 stowage elements in the cabin but all of them are a bit too shallow and narrow. Boot space, though, is quite decent at 242 litres.We only had the top-of-the-line XZ trim of the Tiago and it came loaded with features. Apart from the regulars like power-steering, power windows etc… the Tiago also comes with a Harman developed eight speaker music system which gets aux-in, USB and Bluetooth connectivity. The car Bluetooth also comes with smart phone integration where the small infotainment display will show turn-by-turn instructions if you are using navigation on your connected device. Tata has a tie-up with Map My India where you can get the app for free and you can use navigation offline unlike Google maps. You also get a bespoke mobile app which creates a hotspot so that multiple users can play their favourite songs on the music system. The Tiago also gets rear parking sensors with display, two airbags and ABS with EBD as standard.Tata Tiago Driving Experience.A pair of three-cylinder engines – a 1.2 petrol and a 1.0 litre turbo-diesel power the TiagoThe three-cylinder 1199cc petrol engine produces a healthy 83.8bhp and 114Nm of torque. It is a modern motor with all-aluminium construction and variable valve timing, albeit just for intake port for better breathing. The petrol Tiago surprised us with its smoothness and refinement. You feel some vibrations at idle but as soon as you start moving, the engine smoothens out and as long as you don’t rev it hard, this motor is pretty silent. The Tiago doesn’t hesitate off the line and the engine pulls cleanly from low speeds. The motor doesn’t have a strong bottom end but once past 3000rpm it feels responsive and the motor gets a second wind around 5200rpm. The performance on the highway though feels modest, especially with a full load of passengers. The gearbox is smooth enough but it has long throws and it doesn’t feel as crisp or precise as the diesel unit. We also tried out both the Eco and City modes and at low speeds there is not much of a difference. How much will it improve the fuel efficiency remains to be seen.Tata Tiago Verdict.With the new Tiago, Tata has set out to deliver a car which delivers on most counts, by and large, it has succeeded in doing just that. It offers good looks, style and a spacious cabin, decent refinement and good ride comfort. Though performance from both the engines is nothing to get excited about they are at par with the competition. We expect the Tiago to be priced at par with the Celerio as far as the petrol variant is concerned and hopefully only slightly more than the diesel Celerio. If Tata are able to price the Tiago competitively, we are sure it has the capability to bring back buyers who have shied away from Tata showrooms in the recent years.We expect Tata to price the Tiago very aggressively and when launched early next year it will rival the Maruti Suzuki Celerio and the Chevrolet Beat.Tata’s diesel Tiago joined our long term fleet three months ago and after completing more than 4600km, it has done its time here and finally needs to go back. While there’s no denying that the experience has been better than expected, I’d like to share the overall feel.Tata Motors got it right with the Tiago, and it is really nice to see this hatch sport some contemporary and interesting design cues. It comes equipped with a host of features that are unseen in the segment (like the Harman eight speaker system), is spacious and depicts a build quality that puts the segment competition to shame. On the contrary, it is good lesson for the established players to learn what a good package really feels like.This Tiago has been a witness to my seeing good roads turn to worse, thanks to the rains. But it humbly took the challenge of negotiating these roads with the kind of poise that one usually comes across only in cars from a segment or two above. This is one of the key aspects that make this compact hatch stand out from the rest. I’ve had the opportunity to take feedback from a variety of passengers, and they only had nice things to say about the ambience and the air-con. However, the extremely soft seats are unable to offer comfort over long distances.We ran into some irritants though, like the boot lid that needs to be flung with force to get it shut. Our Tiago also came with a unique rattle from the front end which even a workshop visit couldn’t rectify. But barring these and a weird wiper mechanical noise, there isn’t anything much to complain about. Especially, when one can squeeze through traffic with excellent visibility and the confidence inspired by those rear parking sensors.Powering the diesel Tiago is a 1.0-litre Revotorq motor that has enough performance on tap for regular commutes and peaceful long drives. With peak performance hovering between 2000rpm and 3000rpm, it is imperative that you slot here in the ‘City’ mode when eyeing any sporty manoeuvre. Engine noise can filter into the cabin only when it is revved to the limit, and this is due to some very good insulation. Our Tiago is quite frugal too, as it consistently gave us 15.48kpl and 18.27kpl in the city and highway. As much as the steering provides good feedback overall, it could have been a little more responsive around the dead centre position.I was paranoid about getting the Tiago initially, but as things stand today, none of the inconveniences recorded here are real deal breakers. I’d easily recommend this diesel hatchback to buyers as it proposes a well-balanced package of features, space and driveability, looks, and build quality. All this at a price that’s hard to find fault with.We’ve spent some quality time with the Tiago and can easily say that it has what it takes be a winner.